The holders of the lists occupied the end which was nearest to the city
gate. There, in front of their respective pavilions, flew the martlets
of Audley, the roses of Loring, the scarlet bars of Wake, the lion of
the Percies and the silver wings of the Beauchamps, each supported by
a squire clad in hanging green stuff to represent so many Tritons, and
bearing a huge conch-shell in their left hands. Behind the tents the
great war-horses, armed at all points, champed and reared, while their
masters sat at the doors of their pavilions, with their helmets upon
their knees, chatting as to the order of the day's doings. The English
archers and men-at-arms had mustered at that end of the lists, but the
vast majority of the spectators were in favor of the attacking party,
for the English had declined in popularity ever since the bitter dispute
as to the disposal of the royal captive after the battle of Poictiers.
Hence the applause was by no means general when the herald-at-arms
proclaimed, after a flourish of trumpets, the names and styles of the
knights who were prepared, for the honor of their country and for the
love of their ladies, to hold the field against all who might do them
the favor to run a course with them. On the other hand, a deafening
burst of cheering greeted the rival herald, who, advancing from the
other end of the lists, rolled forth the well-known titles of the five
famous warriors who had accepted the defiance.