The sixth and last column of foot was headed by a body of peasants
bearing ‘Minehead’ upon their banner, and the ensign of the three
wool-bales and the sailing ship, which is the sign of that ancient
borough. They had come for the most part from the wild country which
lies to the north of Dunster Castle and skirts the shores of the Bristol
Channel. Behind them were the poachers and huntsmen of Porlock Quay, who
had left the red deer of Exmoor to graze in peace whilst they followed
a nobler quarry. They were followed by men from Dulverton, men from
Milverton, men from Wiveliscombe and the sunny slopes of the Quantocks,
swart, fierce men from the bleak moors of Dunkerry Beacon, and tall,
stalwart pony rearers and graziers from Bampton. The banners of
Bridgewater, of Shepton Mallet, and of Nether Stowey swept past us, with
that of the fishers of Clovelly and the quarrymen of the Blackdowns. In
the rear were three companies of strange men, giants in stature, though
somewhat bowed with labour, with long tangled beards, and unkempt hair
hanging over their eyes. These were the miners from the Mendip hills and
from the Oare and Bagworthy valleys, rough, half-savage men, whose eyes
rolled up at the velvets and brocades of the shouting citizens, or fixed
themselves upon their smiling dames with a fierce intensity which scared
the peaceful burghers. So the long line rolled in until three squadrons
of horse and four small cannon, with the blue-coated Dutch cannoniers as
stiff as their own ramrods, brought up the rear. A long train of carts
and of waggons which had followed the army were led into the fields
outside the walls and there quartered.