Then came the mighty rushing wind from without, blowing from the
waste places of the world, destroying, confounding, whirling madly
through the old order, leaving broken chaos behind it, but finally
cleansing and purifying that which was stale and corrupt. A
storm-centre somewhere in the north of China did suddenly what it
may very well do again. The human volcano blew its top off, and
Europe was covered by the destructive debris. The absurd point is
that it was not the conquerors who overran the Roman Empire, but it
was the terrified fugitives, who, like a drove of stampeded cattle,
blundered over everything which barred their way. It was a wild,
dramatic time--the time of the formation of the modern races of
Europe. The nations came whirling in out of the north and east like
dust-storms, and amid the seeming chaos each was blended with its
neighbour so as to toughen the fibre of the whole. The fickle Gaul
got his steadying from the Franks, the steady Saxon got his touch of
refinement from the Norman, the Italian got a fresh lease of life
from the Lombard and the Ostrogoth, the corrupt Greek made way for
the manly and earnest Mahommedan. Everywhere one seems to see a
great hand blending the seeds. And so one can now, save only that
emigration has taken the place of war. It does not, for example,
take much prophetic power to say that something very great is being
built up on the other side of the Atlantic. When on an Anglo-Celtic
basis you see the Italian, the Hun, and the Scandinavian being
added, you feel that there is no human quality which may not be
thereby evolved.