What a fellow Wilson is!  If I could only throw the same enthusiasm
into physiology that he does into psychology, I should become a Claude
Bernard at the least.  His whole life and soul and energy work to one
end.  He drops to sleep collating his results of the past day, and he
wakes to plan his researches for the coming one.  And yet, outside the
narrow circle who follow his proceedings, he gets so little credit for
it.  Physiology is a recognized science.  If I add even a brick to the
edifice, every one sees and applauds it.  But Wilson is trying to dig
the foundations for a science of the future.  His work is underground
and does not show.  Yet he goes on uncomplainingly, corresponding with
a hundred semi-maniacs in the hope of finding one reliable witness,
sifting a hundred lies on the chance of gaining one little speck of
truth, collating old books, devouring new ones, experimenting,
lecturing, trying to light up in others the fiery interest which is
consuming him.  I am filled with wonder and admiration when I think of
him, and yet, when he asks me to associate myself with his researches,
I am compelled to tell him that, in their present state, they offer
little attraction to a man who is devoted to exact science.  If he
could show me something positive and objective, I might then be tempted
to approach the question from its physiological side.  So long as half
his subjects are tainted with charlatanerie and the other half with
hysteria we physiologists must content ourselves with the body and
leave the mind to our descendants.