Whilst this friendly strife was proceeding between the elders, Sir
Gervas Jerome and Mistress Ruth had fallen into conversation at the
other side of the table. I have seldom seen, my dear children, so
beautiful a face as that of this Puritan damsel; and it was beautiful
with that sort of modest and maidenly comeliness where the features
derive their sweetness from the sweet soul which shines through them.
The perfectly-moulded body appeared to be but the outer expression of
the perfect spirit within. Her dark-brown hair swept back from a broad
and white forehead, which surmounted a pair of well-marked eyebrows and
large blue thoughtful eyes. The whole cast of her features was gentle
and dove-like, yet there was a firmness in the mouth and delicate
prominence of the chin which might indicate that in times of trouble and
danger the little maid would prove to be no unworthy descendant of the
Roundhead soldier and Puritan magistrate. I doubt not that where more
loud-tongued and assertive dames might be cowed, the Mayorâ€™s soft-voiced
daughter would begin to cast off her gentler disposition, and to show
the stronger nature which underlay it. It amused me much to listen to
the efforts which Sir Gervas made to converse with her, for the damsel
and he lived so entirely in two different worlds, that it took all his
gallantry and ready wit to keep on ground which would be intelligible to
her.