“You will remember, Watson,” he remarked one afternoon, “that there is
a single common point of resemblance in the varying reports which have
reached us. This concerns the effect of the atmosphere of the room in
each case upon those who had first entered it. You will recollect that
Mortimer Tregennis, in describing the episode of his last visit to his
brother’s house, remarked that the doctor on entering the room fell
into a chair? You had forgotten? Well I can answer for it that it was
so. Now, you will remember also that Mrs. Porter, the housekeeper, told
us that she herself fainted upon entering the room and had afterwards
opened the window. In the second case—that of Mortimer Tregennis
himself—you cannot have forgotten the horrible stuffiness of the room
when we arrived, though the servant had thrown open the window. That
servant, I found upon inquiry, was so ill that she had gone to her bed.
You will admit, Watson, that these facts are very suggestive. In each
case there is evidence of a poisonous atmosphere. In each case, also,
there is combustion going on in the room—in the one case a fire, in the
other a lamp. The fire was needed, but the lamp was lit—as a comparison
of the oil consumed will show—long after it was broad daylight. Why?
Surely because there is some connection between three things—the
burning, the stuffy atmosphere, and, finally, the madness or death of
those unfortunate people. That is clear, is it not?”