In my own case, this medium mentioned correctly the first name of a
lady who had died in our house, gave several very characteristic
messages from her, described the only two dogs which we have ever kept,
and ended by saying that a young officer was holding up a gold coin by
which I would recognise him.  I had lost my brother-in-law, an army
doctor, in the war, and I had given him a spade guinea for his first
fee, which he always wore on his chain.  There were not more than two
or three close relatives who knew about this incident, so that the test
was a particularly good one.  She made no incorrect statements, though
some were vague.  After I had revealed the identity of this medium
several pressmen attempted to have test seances with her--a test seance
being, in most cases, a seance which begins by breaking every psychic
condition and making success most improbable.  One of these gentlemen,
Mr. Ulyss Rogers, had very fair results.  Another sent from "Truth" had
complete failure.  It must be understood that these powers do not work
from the medium, but through the medium, and that the forces in the
beyond have not the least sympathy with a smart young pressman in
search of clever copy, while they have a very different feeling to a
bereaved mother who prays with all her broken heart that some assurance
may be given her that the child of her love is not gone from her for
ever.  When this fact is mastered, and it is understood that "Stand and
deliver" methods only excite gentle derision on the other side, we
shall find some more intelligent manner of putting things of the spirit
to the proof.[3]