It has already been stated that of the three headings under which
reforms are grouped, the exclusion of the old dispensation, the greater
attention to Christ's life as compared to His death, and the new
spiritual influx which is giving us psychic religion, it is only on the
latter that one can quote the authority of the beyond.  Here, however,
the case is really understated.  In regard to the Old Testament I have
never seen the matter treated in a spiritual communication.  The nature
of Christ, however, and His teaching, have been expounded a score of
times with some variation of detail, but in the main as reproduced
here.  Spirits have their individuality of view, and some carry over
strong earthly prepossessions which they do not easily shed; but
reading many authentic spirit communications one finds that the idea of
redemption is hardly ever spoken of, while that of example and
influence is for ever insisted upon.  In them Christ is the highest
spirit known, the son of God, as we all are, but nearer to God, and
therefore in a more particular sense His son.  He does not, save in
most rare and special cases, meet us when we die.  Since souls pass
over, night and day, at the rate of about 100 a minute, this would seem
self-evident.  After a time we may be admitted to His presence, to find
a most tender, sympathetic and helpful comrade and guide, whose spirit
influences all things even when His bodily presence is not visible.
This is the general teaching of the other world communications
concerning Christ, the gentle, loving and powerful spirit which broods
ever over that world which, in all its many spheres, is His special
care.