Now, having said so much of the spirit body, and having indicated that
its presence is not vouched for by only one line of evidence or school
of thought, let us turn to what happens at the time of death, according
to the observation of clairvoyants on this side and the posthumous
accounts of the dead upon the other.  It is exactly what we should
expect to happen, granted the double identity.  In a painless and
natural process the lighter disengages itself from the heavier, and
slowly draws itself off until it stands with the same mind, the same
emotions, and an exactly similar body, beside the couch of death, aware
of those around and yet unable to make them aware of it, save where
that finer spiritual eyesight called clairvoyance exists.  How, we may
well ask, can it see without the natural organs?  How did the hashish
victim see his own unconscious body?  How did the Florida doctor see
his friend?  There is a power of perception in the spiritual body which
does give the power.  We can say no more.  To the clairvoyant the new
spirit seems like a filmy outline.  To the ordinary man it is
invisible.  To another spirit it would, no doubt, seem as normal and
substantial as we appear to each other.  There is some evidence that it
refines with time, and is therefore nearer to the material at the
moment of death or closely after it, than after a lapse of months or
years.  Hence, it is that apparitions of the dead are most clear and
most common about the time of death, and hence also, no doubt, the fact
that the cataleptic physician already quoted was seen and recognised by
his friend.  The meshes of his ether, if the phrase be permitted, were
still heavy with the matter from which they had only just been
disentangled.