Great had been the rejoicing amid the Romsey nuns when the Lady Maude
Loring had craved admission into their order--for was she not sole child
and heiress of the old knight, with farms and fiefs which she could
bring to the great nunnery? Long and earnest had been the talks of the
gaunt lady abbess, in which she had conjured the young novice to turn
forever from the world, and to rest her bruised heart under the broad
and peaceful shelter of the church. And now, when all was settled, and
when abbess and lady superior had had their will, it was but fitting
that some pomp and show should mark the glad occasion. Hence was it that
the good burghers of Romsey were all in the streets, that gay flags and
flowers brightened the path from the nunnery to the church, and that a
long procession wound up to the old arched door leading up the bride to
these spiritual nuptials. There was lay-sister Agatha with the high gold
crucifix, and the three incense-bearers, and the two-and-twenty garbed
in white, who cast flowers upon either side of them and sang sweetly the
while. Then, with four attendants, came the novice, her drooping head
wreathed with white blossoms, and, behind, the abbess and her council of
older nuns, who were already counting in their minds whether their own
bailiff could manage the farms of Twynham, or whether a reeve would be
needed beneath him, to draw the utmost from these new possessions which
this young novice was about to bring them.