The British position at this stage of the war was strengthened by a
greater centralisation. Garrisons of outlying towns were withdrawn so
that fewer convoys became necessary. The population was removed also and
placed near the railway lines, where they could be more easily fed. In
this way the scene of action was cleared and the Boer and British forces
left face to face. Convinced of the failure of the peace policy, and
morally strengthened by having tried it, Lord Kitchener set himself to
finish the war by a series of vigorous operations which should sweep the
country from end to end. For this purpose mounted troops were essential,
and an appeal from him for reinforcements was most nobly answered. Five
thousand horsemen were despatched from the colonies, and twenty thousand
cavalry, mounted infantry, and Yeomanry were sent from home. Ten
thousand mounted men had already been raised in Great Britain, South
Africa, and Canada for the Constabulary force which was being organised
by Baden-Powell. Altogether the reinforcements of horsemen amounted to
more than thirty-five thousand men, all of whom had arrived in South
Africa before the end of April. With the remains of his old regiments
Lord Kitchener had under him at this final period of the war between
fifty and sixty thousand cavalry--such a force as no British General in
his happiest dream had ever thought of commanding, and no British war
minister in his darkest nightmare had ever imagined himself called upon
to supply.