On entering the room the clerk looked round; but, seeing no one, he
continued to stand, his cap in his hand, examining with the greatest
interest a chamber which was so different to any to which he was
accustomed. The days had gone by when a nobleman's hall was but a
barn-like, rush-strewn enclosure, the common lounge and eating-room of
every inmate of the castle. The Crusaders had brought back with them
experiences of domestic luxuries, of Damascus carpets and rugs of
Aleppo, which made them impatient of the hideous bareness and want of
privacy which they found in their ancestral strongholds. Still stronger,
however, had been the influence of the great French war; for, however
well matched the nations might be in martial exercises, there could be
no question but that our neighbors were infinitely superior to us in the
arts of peace. A stream of returning knights, of wounded soldiers,
and of unransomed French noblemen, had been for a quarter of a century
continually pouring into England, every one of whom exerted an influence
in the direction of greater domestic refinement, while shiploads of
French furniture from Calais, Rouen, and other plundered towns, had
supplied our own artisans with models on which to shape their work.
Hence, in most English castles, and in Castle Twynham among the rest,
chambers were to be found which would seem to be not wanting either in
beauty or in comfort.