Looking over the list of my reading I find, besides nearly a dozen very
interesting and detailed manuscript accounts, such published narratives
as "Claude's Book," purporting to come from a young British  aviator;
"Thy Son Liveth," from an American soldier, "Private Dowding";
"Raymond," from a British soldier; "Do Thoughts Perish?" which contains
accounts from several British soldiers and others; "I Heard a Voice,"
where a well-known K.C., through the mediumship of his two young
daughters, has a very full revelation of the life beyond; "After
Death," with the alleged experiences of the famous Miss Julia Ames;
"The Seven Purposes," from an American pressman, and many others.  They
differ much in literary skill and are not all equally impressive, but
the point which must strike any impartial mind is the general agreement
of these various accounts as to the conditions of spirit life.  An
examination would show that some of them must have been in the press at
the same time, so that they could not have each inspired the other.
"Claude's Book" and "Thy Son Liveth" appeared at nearly the same time
on different sides of the Atlantic, but they agree very closely.
"Raymond" and "Do Thoughts Perish?" must also have been in the press
together, but the scheme of things is exactly the same.  Surely the
agreement of witnesses must here, as in all cases, be accounted as a
test of truth.  They differ mainly, as it seems to me, when they deal
with their own future including speculations as to reincarnation, etc.,
which may well be as foggy to them as it is to us, or systems of
philosophy where again individual opinion is apparent.