“By Saint Paul!” cried Sir Nigel, with his one eye glowing like an
ember, “these appear to be two very worthy and debonair gentlemen. I do
not call to mind when I have seen any people who seemed of so great a
heart and so high of enterprise. We have our horses, Sir William: shall
we not relieve them of any vow which they may have upon their souls?” Felton's reply was to bound upon his charger, and to urge it down the
slope, while Sir Nigel followed not three spears'-lengths behind him.
It was a rugged course, rocky and uneven, yet the two knights, choosing
their men, dashed onwards at the top of their speed, while the gallant
Spaniards flew as swiftly to meet them. The one to whom Felton found
himself opposed was a tall stripling with a stag's head upon his shield,
while Sir Nigel's man was broad and squat with plain steel harness, and
a pink and white torse bound round his helmet. The first struck Felton
on the target with such force as to split it from side to side, but Sir
William's lance crashed through the camail which shielded the Spaniard's
throat, and he fell, screaming hoarsely, to the ground. Carried away by
the heat and madness of fight, the English knight never drew rein, but
charged straight on into the array of the knights of Calatrava. Long
time the silent ranks upon the hill could see a swirl and eddy deep down
in the heart of the Spanish column, with a circle of rearing chargers
and flashing blades. Here and there tossed the white plume of the
English helmet, rising and falling like the foam upon a wave, with the
fierce gleam and sparkle ever circling round it until at last it had
sunk from view, and another brave man had turned from war to peace.