Crabbe was not at all the type of man whom we usually associate with the
word "genius." He was not pale nor thin, neither was his hair of
abnormal growth. On the contrary he was a powerfully built,
square-shouldered fellow, full of vitality, with a voice like a bull and
a laugh that could be heard across the meadows. A muscular Christian
too, and one of the best Rugby forwards in Edinburgh. I remember my first meeting with Crabbe. It gave me a respect both for
his cool reasoning powers and for his courage. It was at one of the
Bulgarian Atrocity meetings held in Edinburgh in '78. The hall was
densely packed and the ventilation defective, so that I was not sorry to
find that owing to my lateness I was unable to get any place, and had to
stand in the doorway. Leaning against the wall there I could both enjoy
the cool air and hear the invectives which speaker after speaker was
hurling at the Conservative ministry. The audience seemed
enthusiastically unanimous. A burst of cheering hailed every argument
and sarcasm. There was not one dissentient voice. The speaker paused to
moisten his lips, and there was a silence over the hall. Then a clear
voice rose from the middle of it: "All very fine, but what did
Gladstone----" There was a howl of execration and yells of "Turn him
out!" But the voice was still audible. "What did Gladstone do in '63?"
it demanded. "Turn him out. Show him out of the window! Put him out!"
There was a perfect hurricane of threats and abuse. Men sprang upon the
benches shaking their sticks and peering over each other's shoulders to
get a glimpse of the daring Conservative. "What did Gladstone do in
'63?" roared the voice; "I insist upon being answered." There was
another howl of execration, a great swaying of the crowd, and an eddy in
the middle of it. Then the mass of people parted and a man was borne out
kicking and striking, and after a desperate resistance was precipitated
down the stairs.