"He was stanch and true, was little Tonga.  No man ever had a more
faithful mate.  At the night named he had his boat at the wharf.  As it
chanced, however, there was one of the convict-guard down there,--a
vile Pathan who had never missed a chance of insulting and injuring me.
I had always vowed vengeance, and now I had my chance.  It was as if
fate had placed him in my way that I might pay my debt before I left
the island.  He stood on the bank with his back to me, and his carbine
on his shoulder.  I looked about for a stone to beat out his brains
with, but none could I see.  Then a queer thought came into my head and
showed me where I could lay my hand on a weapon.  I sat down in the
darkness and unstrapped my wooden leg.  With three long hops I was on
him.  He put his carbine to his shoulder, but I struck him full, and
knocked the whole front of his skull in.  You can see the split in the
wood now where I hit him.  We both went down together, for I could not
keep my balance, but when I got up I found him still lying quiet
enough.  I made for the boat, and in an hour we were well out at sea.
Tonga had brought all his earthly possessions with him, his arms and
his gods.  Among other things, he had a long bamboo spear, and some
Andaman cocoa-nut matting, with which I made a sort of sail.  For ten
days we were beating about, trusting to luck, and on the eleventh we
were picked up by a trader which was going from Singapore to Jiddah
with a cargo of Malay pilgrims.  They were a rum crowd, and Tonga and I
soon managed to settle down among them.  They had one very good
quality:  they let you alone and asked no questions.