But how about Richardson and Fielding? There is indeed a competition
of giants. Let us take the points of each in turn, and then compare
them with each other. There is one characteristic, the rarest and subtlest of all, which
each of them had in a supreme degree. Each could draw the most
delightful women--the most perfect women, I think, in the whole
range of our literature. If the eighteenth-century women were like
that, then the eighteenth-century men got a great deal more than
they ever deserved. They had such a charming little dignity of their
own, such good sense, and yet such dear, pretty, dainty ways, so
human and so charming, that even now they become our ideals. One
cannot come to know them without a double emotion, one of respectful
devotion towards themselves, and the other of abhorrence for the
herd of swine who surrounded them. Pamela, Harriet Byron, Clarissa,
Amelia, and Sophia Western were all equally delightful, and it was
not the negative charm of the innocent and colourless woman, the
amiable doll of the nineteenth century, but it was a beauty of
nature depending upon an alert mind, clear and strong principles,
true womanly feelings, and complete feminine charm. In this respect
our rival authors may claim a tie, for I could not give a preference
to one set of these perfect creatures over another. The plump little
printer and the worn-out man-about-town had each a supreme woman in
his mind.