But Meinhold belongs to a bygone generation. This other author, in
whom I find a new note, and one of great power, is Merejkowski, who
is, if I mistake not, young and with his career still before him.
"The Forerunner" and "The Death of the Gods" are the only two
books of his which I have been able to obtain, but the pictures of
Renaissance Italy in the one, and of declining Rome in the other,
are in my opinion among the masterpieces of fiction. I confess that
as I read them I was pleased to find how open my mind was to new
impressions, for one of the greatest mental dangers which comes upon
a man as he grows older is that he should become so attached to old
favourites that he has no room for the new-comer, and persuades
himself that the days of great things are at an end because his own
poor brain is getting ossified. You have but to open any critical
paper to see how common is the disease, but a knowledge of literary
history assures us that it has always been the same, and that if the
young writer is discouraged by adverse comparisons it has been the
common lot from the beginning. He has but one resource, which is
to pay no heed to criticism, but to try to satisfy his own highest
standard and leave the rest to time and the public. Here is a little
bit of doggerel, pinned, as you see, beside my bookcase, which may
in a ruffled hour bring peace and guidance to some younger brother--