This was clearly Holmes's doing.  The Baker Street address was enough
to prove that.  It struck me as rather ingenious, because it might be
read by the fugitives without their seeing in it more than the natural
anxiety of a wife for her missing husband. It was a long day.  Every time that a knock came to the door, or a
sharp step passed in the street, I imagined that it was either Holmes
returning or an answer to his advertisement.  I tried to read, but my
thoughts would wander off to our strange quest and to the ill-assorted
and villainous pair whom we were pursuing. Could there be, I wondered,
some radical flaw in my companion's reasoning.  Might he be suffering
from some huge self-deception? Was it not possible that his nimble and
speculative mind had built up this wild theory upon faulty premises?  I
had never known him to be wrong; and yet the keenest reasoner may
occasionally be deceived.  He was likely, I thought, to fall into error
through the over-refinement of his logic,--his preference for a subtle
and bizarre explanation when a plainer and more commonplace one lay
ready to his hand.  Yet, on the other hand, I had myself seen the
evidence, and I had heard the reasons for his deductions.  When I
looked back on the long chain of curious circumstances, many of them
trivial in themselves, but all tending in the same direction, I could
not disguise from myself that even if Holmes's explanation were
incorrect the true theory must be equally outre and startling.