Look at the British poets of a century ago: Chatterton, Burns,
Shelley, Keats, Byron. Burns was the oldest of that brilliant band,
yet Burns was only thirty-eight when he passed away, "burned out,"
as his brother terribly expressed it. Shelley, it is true, died
by accident, and Chatterton by poison, but suicide is in itself a
sign of a morbid state. It is true that Rogers lived to be almost
a centenarian, but he was banker first and poet afterwards.
Wordsworth, Tennyson, and Browning have all raised the average age
of the poets, but for some reason the novelists, especially of late
years, have a deplorable record. They will end by being scheduled
with the white-lead workers and other dangerous trades. Look at the
really shocking case of the young Americans, for example. What a
band of promising young writers have in a few years been swept away!
There was the author of that admirable book, "David Harum"; there
was Frank Norris, a man who had in him, I think, the seeds of
greatness more than almost any living writer. His "Pit" seemed to me
one of the finest American novels. He also died a premature death.
Then there was Stephen Crane--a man who had also done most brilliant
work, and there was Harold Frederic, another master-craftsman. Is
there any profession in the world which in proportion to its numbers
could show such losses as that? In the meantime, out of our own men
Robert Louis Stevenson is gone, and Henry Seton Merriman, and many
another.