There were folk, too, to be met upon the road--beggars and couriers,
chapmen and tinkers--cheery fellows for the most part, with a rough jest
and homely greeting for each other and for Alleyne. Near Shotwood he
came upon five seamen, on their way from Poole to Southampton--rude
red-faced men, who shouted at him in a jargon which he could scarce
understand, and held out to him a great pot from which they had been
drinking--nor would they let him pass until he had dipped pannikin in
and taken a mouthful, which set him coughing and choking, with the tears
running down his cheeks. Further on he met a sturdy black-bearded man,
mounted on a brown horse, with a rosary in his right hand and a long
two-handed sword jangling against his stirrup-iron. By his black robe
and the eight-pointed cross upon his sleeve, Alleyne recognized him
as one of the Knights Hospitallers of St. John of Jerusalem, whose
presbytery was at Baddesley. He held up two fingers as he passed, with a
“_Benedic, fili mi!_” whereat Alleyne doffed hat and bent knee, looking
with much reverence at one who had devoted his life to the overthrow of
the infidel. Poor simple lad! he had not learned yet that what men are
and what men profess to be are very wide asunder, and that the Knights
of St. John, having come into large part of the riches of the ill-fated
Templars, were very much too comfortable to think of exchanging their
palace for a tent, or the cellars of England for the thirsty deserts of
Syria. Yet ignorance may be more precious than wisdom, for Alleyne as he
walked on braced himself to a higher life by the thought of this other's
sacrifice, and strengthened himself by his example which he could scarce
have done had he known that the Hospitaller's mind ran more upon malmsey
than on Mamelukes, and on venison rather than victories.