So much for the borderland, the intermediate condition.  The present
Christian dogma has no name for it, unless it be that nebulous limbo
which is occasionally mentioned, and is usually defined as the place
where the souls of the just who died before Christ were detained.  The
idea of crossing a space before reaching a permanent state on the other
side is common to many religions, and took the allegorical form of a
river with a ferry-boat among the Romans and Greeks.  Continually, one
comes on points which make one realise that far back in the world's
history there has been a true revelation, which has been blurred and
twisted in time.  Thus in Dr. Muir's summary of the RIG.  VEDA, he
says, epitomising the beliefs of the first Aryan conquerors of India:
"Before, however, the unborn part" (that is, the etheric body) "can
complete its course to the third heaven it has to traverse a vast gulf
of darkness, leaving behind on earth all that is evil, and proceeding
by the paths the fathers trod, the spirit soars to the realms of
eternal light, recovers there his body in a glorified form, and obtains
from God a delectable abode and enters upon a more perfect life, which
is crowned with the fulfilment of all desires, is passed in the
presence of the Gods and employed in the fulfilment of their pleasure."
If we substitute "angels" for "Gods" we must admit that the new
revelation from modern spirit sources has much in common with the
belief of our Aryan fathers.