"It is well that Troy stands a good ten miles from the sea, for if they
came out at us with a fleet they might have us at a disadvantage. We had
no choice but to come here and refit, yet I shall have no happy hour
until I see the white foam from the lash of our oars once more. Go,
Seleucas, and speed them all you may." The officer bowed and departed, while the chieftain stood with his eyes
fixed upon his great dismantled galley over which the riggers and
carpenters were swarming. Further out in the roadstead lay eleven other
smaller galleys, waiting until their wounded flagship should be ready
for them. The sun, as it shone upon them, gleamed upon hundreds of
bronze helmets and breastplates, telling of the warlike nature of the
errand upon which they were engaged. Save for them the port was filled
with bustling merchant ships taking in cargoes or disgorging them upon
the quays. At the very feet of the Greek chieftain three broad barges
were moored, and gangs of labourers with wooden shovels were heaving out
the mussels brought from Dor, destined to supply the famous Tyrian
dye-works which adorn the most noble of all garments. Beside them was a
tin ship from Britain, and the square boxes of that precious metal, so
needful for the making of bronze, were being passed from hand to hand to
the waiting waggons. The Greek found himself smiling at the uncouth
wonder of a Cornishman who had come with his tin, and who was now lost
in amazement as he stared at the long colonnades of the Temple of
Melmoth and the high front of the Shrine of Ashtaroth behind it. Even
as he gazed some of his ship-mates passed their hands through his arms
and led him along the quay to a wine-shop, as being a building much more
within his comprehension. The Greek, still smiling, was turning on his
heels to return to the Temple, when one of the clean-shaven priests of
Baal came towards him.