In the next and final chapter I will ask the reader to accompany me in
an examination of the New Testament by the light of this psychic
knowledge, and to judge how far it makes clear and reasonable much
which was obscure and confused. IS IT THE SECOND DAWN? 
There are many incidents in the New Testament which might be taken as
starting points in tracing a close analogy between the phenomenal
events which are associated with the early days of Christianity, and
those which have perplexed the world in connection with modern
Spiritualism.  Most of us are prepared to admit that the lasting claims
of Christianity upon the human race are due to its own intrinsic
teachings, which are quite independent of those wonders which can only
have had a use in startling the solid complacence of an unspiritual
race, and so directing their attention violently to this new system of
thought.  Exactly the same may be said of the new revelation.  The
exhibitions of a force which is beyond human experience and human
guidance is but a method of calling attention.  To repeat a simile
which has been used elsewhere, it is the humble telephone bell which
heralds the all-important message.  In the case of Christ, the Sermon
on the Mount was more than many miracles.  In the case of this new
development, the messages from beyond are more than any phenomena.  A
vulgar mind might make Christ's story seem vulgar, if it insisted upon
loaves of bread and the bodies of fish.  So, also, a vulgar mind may
make psychic religion vulgar by insisting upon moving furniture or
tambourines in the air.  In each case they are crude signs of power,
and the essence of the matter lies upon higher planes.