None of the white prisoners with the exception of Colonel Cochrane had
ever been upon a camel before. It seemed an alarming distance to the
ground when they looked down, and the curious swaying motion, with
the insecurity of the saddle, made them sick and frightened. But their
bodily discomfort was forgotten in the turmoil of bitter thoughts
within. What a chasm gaped between their old life and their new! And yet
how short was the time and space which divided them! Less than an hour
ago they had stood upon the summit of that rock and had laughed and
chattered, or grumbled at the heat and flies, becoming peevish at small
discomforts. Headingly had been hypercritical over the tints of Nature.
They could not forget his own tint as he lay with his cheek upon the
black stone. Sadie had chattered about tailor-made dresses and Parisian
chiffons. Now she was clinging, half-crazy, to the pommel of a wooden
saddle, with suicide rising as a red star of hope in her mind. Humanity,
reason, argument,--all were gone, and there remained the brutal
humiliation of force. And all the time, down there by the second rocky
point, their steamer was waiting for them,--their saloon, with the white
napery and the glittering glasses, the latest novel, and the London
papers. The least imaginative of them could see it so clearly: the white
awning, Mrs. Shlesinger with her yellow sun-hat, Mrs. Belmont lying back
in the canvas chair. There it lay almost in sight of them, that little
floating chip broken off from home, and every silent, ungainly step of
the camels was carrying them more hopelessly away from it. That very
morning how beneficent Providence had appeared, how pleasant was
life!--a little commonplace, perhaps, but so soothing and restful, And
now!