“Ride by my side, friends, I entreat of you,” said the knight, reining
in his steed that they might come abreast of him. “For, since it hath
pleased you to follow me to the wars, it were well that you should know
how you may best serve me. I doubt not, Terlake, that you will show
yourself a worthy son of a valiant father; and you, Ford, of yours; and
you, Edricson, that you are mindful of the old-time house from which
all men know that you are sprung. And first I would have you bear
very steadfastly in mind that our setting forth is by no means for the
purpose of gaining spoil or exacting ransom, though it may well happen
that such may come to us also. We go to France, and from thence I trust
to Spain, in humble search of a field in which we may win advancement
and perchance some small share of glory. For this purpose I would have
you know that it is not my wont to let any occasion pass where it is in
any way possible that honor may be gained. I would have you bear this
in mind, and give great heed to it that you may bring me word of all
cartels, challenges, wrongs, tyrannies, infamies, and wronging of
damsels. Nor is any occasion too small to take note of, for I have
known such trifles as the dropping of a gauntlet, or the flicking of
a breadcrumb, when well and properly followed up, lead to a most noble
spear-running. But, Edricson, do I not see a cavalier who rides down
yonder road amongst the nether shaw? It would be well, perchance, that
you should give him greeting from me. And, should he be of gentle blood
it may be that he would care to exchange thrusts with me.”