And he had some great qualities. Memory was the chief of them. He
had read omnivorously, and all that he had read he remembered, not
merely in the vague, general way in which we remember what we read,
but with every particular of place and date. If it were poetry, he
could quote it by the page, Latin or English. Such a memory has its
enormous advantage, but it carries with it its corresponding defect.
With the mind so crammed with other people's goods, how can you have
room for any fresh manufactures of your own? A great memory is, I
think, often fatal to originality, in spite of Scott and some other
exceptions. The slate must be clear before you put your own writing
upon it. When did Johnson ever discover an original thought, when
did he ever reach forward into the future, or throw any fresh light
upon those enigmas with which mankind is faced? Overloaded with the
past, he had space for nothing else. Modern developments of every
sort cast no first herald rays upon his mind. He journeyed in France
a few years before the greatest cataclysm that the world has ever
known, and his mind, arrested by much that was trivial, never once
responded to the storm-signals which must surely have been visible
around him. We read that an amiable Monsieur Sansterre showed him
over his brewery and supplied him with statistics as to his output
of beer. It was the same foul-mouthed Sansterre who struck up the
drums to drown Louis' voice at the scaffold. The association shows
how near the unconscious sage was to the edge of that precipice and
how little his learning availed him in discerning it.