“I will show you,” answered Sir Nigel; “for here is the great box of
powder, and if you will raise it for me, John, I will show you how it
may be used. Come hither, where the folk are thickest round the fire.
Now, Aylward, crane thy neck and see what would have been deemed an old
wife's tale when we first turned our faces to the wars. Throw back the
lid, John, and drop the box into the fire!” A deafening roar, a fluff of bluish light, and the great square tower
rocked and trembled from its very foundations, swaying this way and that
like a reed in the wind. Amazed and dizzy, the defenders, clutching at
the cracking parapets for support, saw great stones, burning beams of
wood, and mangled bodies hurtling past them through the air. When they
staggered to their feet once more, the whole keep had settled down upon
one side, so that they could scarce keep their footing upon the sloping
platform. Gazing over the edge, they looked down upon the horrible
destruction which had been caused by the explosion. For forty yards
round the portal the ground was black with writhing, screaming figures,
who struggled up and hurled themselves down again, tossing this way
and that, sightless, scorched, with fire bursting from their tattered
clothing. Beyond this circle of death their comrades, bewildered and
amazed, cowered away from this black tower and from these invincible
men, who were most to be dreaded when hope was furthest from their
hearts.