We need more first-hand accounts of these matters before we can
formulate laws. It has been stated in a previous book by the author, but it will bear
repetition, that the use of the seance should, in his opinion, be
carefully regulated as well as reverently conducted.  Having once
satisfied himself of the absolute existence of the unseen world, and of
its proximity to our own, the inquirer has got the great gift which
psychical investigation can give him, and thenceforth he can regulate
his life upon the lines which the teaching from beyond has shown to be
the best.  There is much force in the criticism that too constant
intercourse with the affairs of another world may distract our
attention and weaken our powers in dealing with our obvious duties in
this one.  A seance, with the object of satisfying curiosity or of
rousing interest, cannot be an elevating influence, and the mere
sensation-monger can make this holy and wonderful thing as base as the
over-indulgence in a stimulant.  On the other hand, where the seance is
used for the purpose of satisfying ourselves as to the condition of
those whom we have lost, or of giving comfort to others who crave for a
word from beyond, then it is, indeed, a blessed gift from God to be
used with moderation and with thankfulness.  Our loved ones have their
own pleasant tasks in their new surroundings, and though they assure us
that they love to clasp the hands which we stretch out to them, we
should still have some hesitation in intruding to an unreasonable
extent upon the routine of their lives.