And just one word, before I close down this over-long and too
discursive chatter, on the subject of yonder twin red volumes which
flank the shelf. They are Maxwell's "History of Wellington," and I
do not think you will find a better or more readable one. The reader
must ever feel towards the great soldier what his own immediate
followers felt, respect rather than affection. One's failure to
attain a more affectionate emotion is alleviated by the knowledge
that it was the last thing which he invited or desired. "Don't be a
damned fool, sir!" was his exhortation to the good citizen who had
paid him a compliment. It was a curious, callous nature, brusque
and limited. The hardest huntsman learns to love his hounds, but he
showed no affection and a good deal of contempt for the men who had
been his instruments. "They are the scum of the earth," said he.
"All English soldiers are fellows who have enlisted for drink. That
is the plain fact--they have all enlisted for drink." His general
orders were full of undeserved reproaches at a time when the most
lavish praise could hardly have met the real deserts of his army.
When the wars were done he saw little, save in his official
capacity, of his old comrades-in-arms. And yet, from major-general
to drummer-boy, he was the man whom they would all have elected to
serve under, had the work to be done once more. As one of them said,
"The sight of his long nose was worth ten thousand men on a field of
battle." They were themselves a leathery breed, and cared little for
the gentler amenities so long as the French were well drubbed.