We all very gladly followed his advice, and passed out through the gate,
which was now nothing more than a broad gap amongst the mounds which
marked the lines of the old walls. ‘There is no sign of them yet,’ I
remarked, as we pulled up upon a convenient hillock. ‘I suppose that
they must come by this road which winds through the valley before us.’ ‘There are two sorts of bad general,’ quoth Saxon, ‘the man who is too
fast and the man who is too slow. His Majesty’s advisers will never be
accused of the former failing, whatever other mistakes they may fall
into. There was old Marshal Grunberg, with whom I did twenty-six months’
soldiering in Bohemia. He would fly through the country pell-mell,
horse, foot, and artillery, as if the devil were at his heels. He might
make fifty blunders, but the enemy had never time to take advantage. I
call to mind a raid which we made into Silesia, when, after two days or
so of mountain roads, his Oberhauptmann of the staff told him that it
was impossible for the artillery to keep up. “Lass es hinter!” says he.
So the guns were left, and by the evening of the next day the foot were
dead-beat. “They cannot walk another mile!” says the Oberhauptmann.
“Lassen Sie hinter!” says he. So on we went with the horse--I was in his
Pandour regiment, worse luck! But after a skirmish or two, what with the
roads and what with the enemy, our horses were foundered and useless.
“The horses are used up!” says the Oberhauptmann. “Lassen Sie hinter!”
 he cries; and I warrant that he would have pushed on to Prague with his
staff, had they allowed him. “General Hinterlassen” we called him after
that.’