"Well, when a man lives year in year out among a thousand lunatics,
with a fair sprinkling of homicidals among them, one's nerves either
get set or shattered.  Mine are all right so far." "I was frightened once," says the surgeon.  "It was when I was doing
dispensary work.  One night I had a call from some very poor people,
and gathered from the few words they said that their child was ill.
When I entered the room I saw a small cradle in the corner.  Raising
the lamp I walked over and putting back the curtains I looked down at
the baby.  I tell you it was sheer Providence that I didn't drop that
lamp and set the whole place alight.  The head on the pillow turned and
I saw a face looking up at me which seemed to me to have more
malignancy and wickedness than ever I had dreamed of in a nightmare.
It was the flush of red over the cheekbones, and the brooding eyes full
of loathing of me, and of everything else, that impressed me.  I'll
never forget my start as, instead of the chubby face of an infant, my
eyes fell upon this creature.  I took the mother into the next room.
'What is it?' I asked.  'A girl of sixteen,' said she, and then
throwing up her arms, 'Oh, pray God she may be taken!'  The poor thing,
though she spent her life in this little cradle, had great, long, thin
limbs which she curled up under her.  I lost sight of the case and
don't know what became of it, but I'll never forget the look in her
eyes."