‘We must get back to our command, then,’ I answered. ‘If I mistake not,
I see the flutter of our standards in the market-place.’ We spurred our
weary steeds forward, and made our way with our little party and the
supplies which we had collected, until we found ourselves back in
our quarters, where we were hailed by the lusty cheers of our hungry
comrades. Before noon the drove of bullocks had been changed into joints
and steaks, while our green stuff and other victuals had helped to
furnish the last dinner which many of our men were ever destined to eat.
Major Hooker came in shortly after with a good store of provisions, but
in no very good case, for he had had a skirmish with the dragoons, and
had lost eight or ten of his men. He bore a complaint straightway to the
council concerning the manner in which we had deserted him; but great
events were coming fast upon us now, and there was small time to inquire
into petty matters of discipline. For myself, I freely confess, looking
back on it, that as a soldier he was entirely in the right, and that
from a strict military point of view our conduct was not to be excused.
Yet I trust, my dears, even now, when years have weighed me down, that
the scream of a woman in distress would be a signal which would draw me
to her aid while these old limbs could bear me. For the duty which
we owe to the weak overrides all other duties and is superior to all
circumstances, and I for one cannot see why the coat of the soldier
should harden the heart of the man.