“I never could think why they wore them,” said Sadie; “until one day I
saw one with her veil lifted. Then I knew.” “They make me tired, those women,” cried Miss Adams, wrathfully. “One
might as well try to preach duty and decency and cleanliness to a line
of bolsters. Why, good land, it was only yesterday at Abou-Simbel, Mr.
Stephens, I was passing one of their houses,--if you can call a mud-pie
like that a house,--and I saw two of the children at the door with the
usual crust of flies round their eyes, and great holes in their poor
little blue gowns! So I got off my donkey, and I turned up my sleeves,
and I washed their faces well with my handkerchief, and sewed up the
rents,--for in this country I would as soon think of going ashore
without my needle-case as without my white umbrella, Mr. Stephens. Then
as I warmed on the job I got into the room,--such a room!--and I packed
the folks out of it, and I fairly did the chores as if I had been the
hired help. I've seen no more of that temple of Abou-Simbel than if I
had never left Boston; but, my sakes, I saw more dust and mess than
you would think they could crowd into a house the size of a Newport
bathing-hut. From the time I pinned up my skirt until I came out, with
my face the colour of that smoke-stack, wasn't more than an hour, or
maybe an hour and a half, but I had that house as clean and fresh as a
new pine-wood box. I had a _New York Herald_ with me, and I lined their
shelf with paper for them. Well, Mr. Stephens, when I had done washing
my hands outside, I came past the door again, and there were those two
children sitting on the stoop with their eyes full of flies, and all
just the same as ever, except that each had a little paper cap made out
of the _New York Herald_ upon his head. But, say, Sadie, it's going on
to ten o'clock, and tomorrow an early excursion.”