The quotation which I have given from Mercer's book turns my
thoughts in the direction of the British military reminiscences of
that period, less numerous, less varied, and less central than the
French, but full of character and interest all the same. I have
found that if I am turned loose in a large library, after hesitating
over covers for half an hour or so, it is usually a book of soldier
memoirs which I take down. Man is never so interesting as when he is
thoroughly in earnest, and no one is so earnest as he whose life is
at stake upon the event. But of all types of soldier the best is
the man who is keen upon his work, and yet has general culture
which enables him to see that work in its due perspective, and to
sympathize with the gentler aspirations of mankind. Such a man is
Mercer, an ice-cool fighter, with a sense of discipline and decorum
which prevented him from moving when a bombshell was fizzing between
his feet, and yet a man of thoughtful and philosophic temperament,
with a weakness for solitary musings, for children, and for flowers.
He has written for all time the classic account of a great battle,
seen from the point of view of a battery commander. Many others of
Wellington's soldiers wrote their personal reminiscences. You can
get them, as I have them there, in the pleasant abridgement of
"Wellington's Men" (admirably edited by Dr. Fitchett)--Anton the
Highlander, Harris the rifleman, and Kincaid of the same corps. It
is a most singular fate which has made an Australian nonconformist
clergyman the most sympathetic and eloquent reconstructor of those
old heroes, but it is a noble example of that unity of the British
race, which in fifty scattered lands still mourns or rejoices over
the same historic record.