He was a very strange man, bigoted, prejudiced, obstinate, inclined
to be sulky, as wayward as a man could be. So far his catalogue of
qualities does not seem to pick him as a winner. But he had one
great and rare gift. He preserved through all his days a sense of
the great wonder and mystery of life--the child sense which is so
quickly dulled. Not only did he retain it himself, but he was
word-master enough to make other people hark back to it also. As he
writes you cannot help seeing through his eyes, and nothing which
his eyes saw or his ear heard was ever dull or commonplace. It was
all strange, mystic, with some deeper meaning struggling always to
the light. If he chronicled his conversation with a washer-woman
there was something arresting in the words he said, something
singular in her reply. If he met a man in a public-house one felt,
after reading his account, that one would wish to know more of
that man. If he approached a town he saw and made you see--not a
collection of commonplace houses or frowsy streets, but something
very strange and wonderful, the winding river, the noble bridge,
the old castle, the shadows of the dead. Every human being, every
object, was not so much a thing in itself, as a symbol and reminder
of the past. He looked through a man at that which the man
represented. Was his name Welsh? Then in an instant the individual
is forgotten and he is off, dragging you in his train, to ancient
Britons, intrusive Saxons, unheard-of bards, Owen Glendower,
mountain raiders and a thousand fascinating things. Or is it a
Danish name? He leaves the individual in all his modern commonplace
while he flies off to huge skulls at Hythe (in parenthesis I may
remark that I have examined the said skulls with some care, and they
seemed to me to be rather below the human average), to Vikings,
Berserkers, Varangians, Harald Haardraada, and the innate wickedness
of the Pope. To Borrow all roads lead to Rome.