He went into the back room and lit the spirit-kettle to boil the water
for his tea, laughing the while at the recollection of his recent
interview.  If all patients were like this one it could easily be
reckoned how many it would take to ruin him completely.  Putting aside
the dirt upon his carpet and the loss of time, there were twopence gone
upon the bandage, fourpence or more upon the medicine, to say nothing
of phial, cork, label, and paper.  Then he had given her fivepence, so
that his first patient had absorbed altogether not less than one sixth
of his available capital.  If five more were to come he would be a
broken man.  He sat down upon the portmanteau and shook with laughter
at the thought, while he measured out his one spoonful and a half of
tea at one shilling eightpence into the brown earthenware teapot.
Suddenly, however, the laugh faded from his face, and he cocked his ear
towards the door, standing listening with a slanting head and a
sidelong eye.  There had been a rasping of wheels against the curb, the
sound of steps outside, and then a loud peal at the bell.  With his
teaspoon in his hand he peeped round the corner and saw with amazement
that a carriage and pair were waiting outside, and that a powdered
footman was standing at the door.  The spoon tinkled down upon the
floor, and he stood gazing in bewilderment.  Then, pulling himself
together, he threw open the door.