And indeed there was enough to make a man chafe, for he had much to
think of and yet was bereft of the power of thought.  There was, for
example, that question of the Dobrutscha and the navigation of the
mouths of the Danube which was ripe for settlement.  The Russian
Chancellor had sent a masterly statement upon the subject, and it was
the pet ambition of our Minister to answer it in a worthy fashion.
Then there was the blockade of Crete, and the British fleet lying off
Cape Matapan, waiting for instructions which might change the course of
European history.  And there were those three unfortunate Macedonian
tourists, whose friends were momentarily expecting to receive their
ears or their fingers in default of the exorbitant ransom which had
been demanded.  They must be plucked out of those mountains, by force
or by diplomacy, or an outraged public would vent its wrath upon
Downing Street.  All these questions pressed for a solution, and yet
here was the Foreign Minister of England, planted in an arm-chair, with
his whole thoughts and attention riveted upon the ball of his right
toe!  It was humiliating--horribly humiliating!  His reason revolted at
it.  He had been a respecter of himself, a respecter of his own will;
but what sort of a machine was it which could be utterly thrown out of
gear by a little piece of inflamed gristle?  He groaned and writhed
among his cushions.