A PARTICULAR INSTANCE 
I have been in touch with a series of events in America lately, and can
vouch for the facts as much as any man can vouch for facts which did
not occur to himself.  I have not the least doubt in my own mind that
they are true, and a more remarkable double proof of the continuity of
life has, I should think, seldom been published.  A book has recently
been issued by Harpers, of New York, called "The Seven Purposes."  In
this book the authoress, Miss Margaret Cameron, describes how she
suddenly developed the power of automatic writing.  She was not a
Spiritualist at the time.  Her hand was controlled and she wrote a
quantity of matter which was entirely outside her own knowledge or
character.  Upon her doubting whether her sub-conscious self might in
some way be producing the writing, which was partly done by planchette,
the script was written upside down and from right to left, as though
the writer was seated opposite.  Such script could not possibly be
written by the lady herself.  Upon making enquiry as to who was using
her hand, the answer came in writing that it was a certain Fred
Gaylord, and that his object was to get a message to his mother.  The
youth was unknown to Miss Cameron, but she knew the family and
forwarded the message, with the result that the mother came to see her,
examined the evidence, communicated with the son, and finally,
returning home, buried all her evidences of mourning, feeling that the
boy was no more dead in the old sense than if he were alive in a
foreign country.