They were not long in coming. I had hardly settled in my chair before I
was conscious of a thick, musky odour, subtle and nauseous. At the very
first whiff of it my brain and my imagination were beyond all control.
A thick, black cloud swirled before my eyes, and my mind told me that
in this cloud, unseen as yet, but about to spring out upon my appalled
senses, lurked all that was vaguely horrible, all that was monstrous
and inconceivably wicked in the universe. Vague shapes swirled and swam
amid the dark cloud-bank, each a menace and a warning of something
coming, the advent of some unspeakable dweller upon the threshold,
whose very shadow would blast my soul. A freezing horror took
possession of me. I felt that my hair was rising, that my eyes were
protruding, that my mouth was opened, and my tongue like leather. The
turmoil within my brain was such that something must surely snap. I
tried to scream and was vaguely aware of some hoarse croak which was my
own voice, but distant and detached from myself. At the same moment, in
some effort of escape, I broke through that cloud of despair and had a
glimpse of Holmes’s face, white, rigid, and drawn with horror—the very
look which I had seen upon the features of the dead. It was that vision
which gave me an instant of sanity and of strength. I dashed from my
chair, threw my arms round Holmes, and together we lurched through the
door, and an instant afterwards had thrown ourselves down upon the
grass plot and were lying side by side, conscious only of the glorious
sunshine which was bursting its way through the hellish cloud of terror
which had girt us in. Slowly it rose from our souls like the mists from
a landscape until peace and reason had returned, and we were sitting
upon the grass, wiping our clammy foreheads, and looking with
apprehension at each other to mark the last traces of that terrific
experience which we had undergone.