This matter is a detail, however, and it is always dangerous to discuss
details in a subject which is so enormous, so dimly seen.  As the
wisest woman I have known remarked to me:  "Things may well be
surprising over there, for if we had been told the facts of this life
before we entered it, we should never have believed it."  In its larger
issues this happy life to come consists in the development of those
gifts which we possess.  There is action for the man of action,
intellectual work for the thinker, artistic, literary, dramatic and
religious for those whose God-given powers lie that way.  What we have
both in brain and character we carry over with us.  No man is too old
to learn, for what he learns he keeps.  There is no physical side to
love and no child-birth, though there is close union between those
married people who really love each other, and, generally, there is
deep sympathetic friendship and comradeship between the sexes.  Every
man or woman finds a soul mate sooner or later.  The child grows up to
the normal, so that the mother who lost a babe of two years old, and
dies herself twenty years later finds a grown-up daughter of twenty-two
awaiting her coming.  Age, which is produced chiefly by the mechanical
presence of lime in our arteries, disappears, and the individual
reverts to the full normal growth and appearance of completed man--or
womanhood.  Let no woman mourn her lost beauty, and no man his lost
strength or weakening brain.  It all awaits them once more upon the
other side.  Nor is any deformity or bodily weakness there, for all is
normal and at its best.