She made no answer, but still sat with her head turned away and her
sparkling eyes fixed upon the fire. One little foot from under her skirt
tapped nervously upon the rug. “It is only right that you should know a little more about me before you
decide. There is, however, little to know. I am an orphan, and, as far
as I know, without a relation upon earth. My father was a respectable
man, a country surgeon in Wales, and he brought me up to his own
profession. Before I had passed my examinations, however, he died and
left me a small annuity. I had conceived a great liking for the subjects
of chemistry and electricity, and instead of going on with my medical
work I devoted myself entirely to these studies, and eventually built
myself a laboratory where I could follow out my own researches. At about
this time I came into a very large sum of money, so large as to make me
feel that a vast responsibility rested upon me in the use which I made
of it. After some thought I determined to build a large house in a quiet
part of the country, not too far from a great centre. There I could be
in touch with the world, and yet would have quiet and leisure to mature
the schemes which were in my head. As it chanced, I chose Tamfield as my
site. All that remains now is to carry out the plans which I have
made, and to endeavour to lighten the earth of some of the misery and
injustice which weigh it down. I again ask you, Laura, will you throw
in your lot with mine, and help me in the life's work which lies before
me?”