As to the French officers, I have read their letters, though even
after a century one had a feeling of guilt when one did so. But, on
the whole, they are a credit to the writers, and give the impression
of a noble and chivalrous set of men. Whether they were all
addressed to the right people is another matter, and therein lay the
poisoned sting of this most un-British affair. As to the monstrous
things which were done upon the other side, remember the arrest of
all the poor British tourists and commercials who chanced to be in
France when the war was renewed in 1803. They had run over in all
trust and confidence for a little outing and change of air. They
certainly got it, for Napoleon's steel grip fell upon them, and they
rejoined their families in 1814. He must have had a heart of adamant
and a will of iron. Look at his conduct over the naval prisoners.
The natural proceeding would have been to exchange them. For some
reason he did not think it good policy to do so. All representations
from the British Government were set aside, save in the case of the
higher officers. Hence the miseries of the hulks and the dreadful
prison barracks in England. Hence also the unhappy idlers of Verdun.
What splendid loyalty there must have been in those humble Frenchmen
which never allowed them for one instant to turn bitterly upon the
author of all their great misfortunes. It is all brought vividly
home by the description of their prisons given by Borrow in
"Lavengro." This is the passage--