Close to the banks of the Garonne there lay a little tract of green
sward, with the high wall of a prior's garden upon one side and an
orchard with a thick bristle of leafless apple-trees upon the other. The
river ran deep and swift up to the steep bank; but there were few boats
upon it, and the ships were moored far out in the centre of the stream.
Here the two combatants drew their swords and threw off their doublets,
for neither had any defensive armor. The duello with its stately
etiquette had not yet come into vogue, but rough and sudden encounters
were as common as they must ever be when hot-headed youth goes abroad
with a weapon strapped to its waist. In such combats, as well as in
the more formal sports of the tilting-yard, Tranter had won a name for
strength and dexterity which had caused Norbury to utter his well-meant
warning. On the other hand, Alleyne had used his weapons in constant
exercise and practice on every day for many months, and being by nature
quick of eye and prompt of hand, he might pass now as no mean swordsman.
A strangely opposed pair they appeared as they approached each other:
Tranter dark and stout and stiff, with hairy chest and corded arms,
Alleyne a model of comeliness and grace, with his golden hair and his
skin as fair as a woman's. An unequal fight it seemed to most; but there
were a few, and they the most experienced, who saw something in the
youth's steady gray eye and wary step which left the issue open to
doubt.