CHAPTER XVIII. HOW SIR NIGEL LORING PUT A PATCH UPON HIS EYE. 
It was on the morning of Friday, the eight-and-twentieth day of
November, two days before the feast of St. Andrew, that the cog and her
two prisoners, after a weary tacking up the Gironde and the Garonne,
dropped anchor at last in front of the noble city of Bordeaux. With
wonder and admiration, Alleyne, leaning over the bulwarks, gazed at the
forest of masts, the swarm of boats darting hither and thither on the
bosom of the broad curving stream, and the gray crescent-shaped city
which stretched with many a tower and minaret along the western shore.
Never had he in his quiet life seen so great a town, nor was there in
the whole of England, save London alone, one which might match it in
size or in wealth. Here came the merchandise of all the fair countries
which are watered by the Garonne and the Dordogne--the cloths of the
south, the skins of Guienne, the wines of the Medoc--to be borne away to
Hull, Exeter, Dartmouth, Bristol or Chester, in exchange for the wools
and woolfels of England. Here too dwelt those famous smelters and
welders who had made the Bordeaux steel the most trusty upon earth, and
could give a temper to lance or to sword which might mean dear life to
its owner. Alleyne could see the smoke of their forges reeking up in the
clear morning air. The storm had died down now to a gentle breeze, which
wafted to his ears the long-drawn stirring bugle-calls which sounded
from the ancient ramparts.