I should think that few men have been born with the material for
self-sufficient contentment more completely within himself than
Edward Gibbon. He had every gift which a great scholar should have,
an insatiable thirst for learning in every form, immense industry,
a retentive memory, and that broadly philosophic temperament which
enables a man to rise above the partisan and to become the impartial
critic of human affairs. It is true that at the time he was looked
upon as bitterly prejudiced in the matter of religious thought, but
his views are familiar to modern philosophy, and would shock no
susceptibilities in these more liberal (and more virtuous) days.
Turn him up in that Encyclopedia, and see what the latest word is
upon his contentions. "Upon the famous fifteenth and sixteenth
chapters it is not necessary to dwell," says the biographer,
"because at this time of day no Christian apologist dreams of
denying the substantial truth of any of the more important
allegations of Gibbon. Christians may complain of the suppression
of some circumstances which might influence the general result, and
they must remonstrate against the unfair construction of their case.
But they no longer refuse to hear any reasonable evidence tending to
show that persecution was less severe than had been once believed,
and they have slowly learned that they can afford to concede the
validity of all the secondary causes assigned by Gibbon and even of
others still more discreditable. The fact is, as the historian has
again and again admitted, that his account of the secondary causes
which contributed to the progress and establishment of Christianity
leaves the question as to the natural or supernatural origin of
Christianity practically untouched." This is all very well, but in
that case how about the century of abuse which has been showered
upon the historian? Some posthumous apology would seem to be called
for.