“They need not come at all unless they come strong,” said he. “These
fellows are picked men with good leaders, and on their own ground they
will take a lot of beating.” Suddenly he paused and looked at the Arabs.
“By George!” said he, “that's a sight worth seeing!” [Illustration: Hour of Arab prayer p142] The great red sun was down with half its disc slipped behind the violet
bank upon the horizon. It was the hour of Arab prayer. An older and more
learned civilisation would have turned to that magnificent thing upon
the skyline and adored _that_. But these wild children of the desert
were nobler in essentials than the polished Persian. To them the ideal
was higher than the material, and it was with their backs to the sun and
their faces to the central shrine of their religion that they prayed.
And how they prayed, these fanatical Moslems! Wrapt, absorbed, with
yearning eyes and shining faces, rising, stooping, grovelling with their
foreheads upon their praying carpets. Who could doubt, as he watched
their strenuous, heart-whole devotion, that here was a great living
power in the world, reactionary but tremendous, countless millions all
thinking as one from Cape Juby to the confines of China? Let a common
wave pass over them, let a great soldier or organiser arise among them
to use the grand material at his hand, and who shall say that this may
not be the besom with which Providence may sweep the rotten, decadent,
impossible, half-hearted south of Europe, as it did a thousand years
ago, until it makes room for a sounder stock?