By the kindness of those fearless pioneers of the movement, Mr. and
Mrs. Hewat Mackenzie, I am allowed to publish another example of spirit
photography.  The circumstances were very remarkable.  The visit of the
parents to Crewe was unproductive and their plate a blank save for
their own presentment.  Returning disappointed, to London they managed,
through the mediumship of Mrs. Leonard, to get into touch with their
boy, and asked him why they had failed.  He replied that the conditions
had been bad, but that he had actually succeeded some days later in
getting on to the plate of Lady Glenconnor, who had been to Crewe upon
a similar errand.  The parents communicated with this lady, who replied
saying that she had found the image of a stranger upon her plate.  On
receiving a print they at once recognised their son, and could even see
that, as a proof of identity, he had reproduced the bullet wound on his
left temple.  No. 3 is their gallant son as he appeared in the flesh,
No. 4 is his reappearance after death.  The opinion of a miniature
painter who had done a picture of the young soldier is worth recording
as evidence of identity.  The artist says:  "After painting the
miniature of your son Will, I feel I know every turn of his face, and
am quite convinced of the likeness of the psychic photograph.  All the
modelling of the brow, nose and eyes is marked by illness--especially
is the mouth slightly contracted--but this does not interfere with the
real form.  The way the hair grows on the brow and temple is noticeably
like the photograph taken before he was wounded."