‘Give him credit for the best until the worst is proved,’ said I,
sitting up in bed smoking, with my letters littered about in front of
me. ‘The worst _is_ proved,’ said Sir Gervas, with a darkening face. ‘I
have, as I said, done Mortimer some turns which he might remember,
though it did not become me to remind him of them. This Mistress
Butterworth is mine old wet-nurse, and it hath been the custom of the
family to provide for her. I could not bear the thought that in the ruin
of my fortune she should lose the paltry guinea or so a week which stood
between her and hunger. My only request to Mortimer, therefore, made on
the score of old friendship, was that he should continue this pittance,
I promising that should I prosper I would return whatever he should
disburse. The mean-hearted villain wrung my hand and swore that it
should be so. How vile a thing is human nature, Clarke! For the sake of
this paltry sum he, a rich man, hath broken his pledge, and left this
poor woman to starve. But he shall answer to me for it. He thinks that
I am on the Atlantic. If I march back to London with these brave boys
I shall disturb the tenor of his sainted existence. Meanwhile I shall
trust to sun-dials, and off goes my watch to Mother Butterworth. Bless
her ample bosoms! I have tried many liquors, but I dare bet that the
first was the most healthy. But how of your own letters? You have been
frowning and smiling like an April day.’