The old abbot spoke cheerily, but it was easy to see from his anxious
countenance that the nearer he came to the capital the more doubtful
did his errand appear. What had seemed easy and natural from the quiet
cloisters of Antioch became dubious and dark now that the golden domes
of Constantinople glittered so close at hand. Ten years before, a
wretched woman, whose very name was an offence throughout the eastern
world, where she was as infamous for her dishonour as famous for her
beauty, had come to the monastery gate, and had persuaded the monks to
take charge of her infant son, the child of her shame. There he had been
ever since. But she, Theodora, the harlot, returning to the capital, had
by the strangest turn of fortune's wheel caught the fancy and finally
the enduring love of Justinian the heir to the throne. Then on the death
of his uncle Justin, the young man had become the greatest monarch upon
the earth, and raised Theodora to be not only his wife and Empress, but
to be absolute ruler with powers equal to and independent of his own.
And she, the polluted one, had risen to the dignity, had cut herself
sternly away from all that related to her past life, and had shown signs
already of being a great Queen, stronger and wiser than her husband,
but fierce, vindictive, and unbending, a firm support to her friends,
but a terror to her foes. This was the woman to whom the Abbot Luke of
Antioch was bringing Leon, her forgotten son. If ever her mind strayed
back to the days when, abandoned by her lover Ecebolus, the Governor of
the African Pentapolis, she had made her way on foot through Asia Minor,
and left her infant with the monks, it was only to persuade herself that
the brethren cloistered far from the world would never identify Theodora
the Empress with Theodora the dissolute wanderer, and that the fruits of
her sin would be for ever concealed from her Imperial husband.