Their minds seem to be of a very practical and positive nature, for they
at once began to ask me a series of question upon the numbers of the
Britons, the resources of the kingdom, the conditions of its trade, and
other such subjects. They then set to work arguing over the information
which I had given, and became so absorbed in their own contention that I
believe there were times when they forgot my presence. Everything, after
due discussion, was decided between them by the vote, the one who found
himself in the minority always submitting, though sometimes with a very
bad grace. Indeed, on one occasion Lanc, who usually differed from the
others, threatened to refer the matter to the general vote of the whole
crew. There was a constant conflict in the point of view; for whereas
Kenna and Hasta were anxious to extend the Saxon power, and to make it
greater in the eyes of the world, Lanc was of opinion that they should
give less thought to conquest and more to the comfort and advancement of
their followers. At the same time it seemed to me that really Lanc was
the most combative of the three; so much so that, even in time of peace,
he could not forego this contest with his own brethren. Neither of the
others seemed very fond of him, for they were each, as was easy to see,
proud of their chieftainship, and anxious to use their authority,
referring continually to those noble ancestors from whom it was
derived; while Lanc though he was equally well born, took the view of
the common men upon every occasion, claiming that the interests of the
many were superior to the privileges of the few. In a word, Crassus, if
you could imagine a free-booting Gracchus on one side, and two piratical
Patricians upon the other, you would understand the effect which my
companions produced upon me.