Below, grouped around the long red table, was an assembly of the most
famous warriors in Europe. At the end nearest the King was the veteran
soldier the Duke of Athens, son of a banished father, and now High
Constable of France. On one side of him sat the red-faced and choleric
Lord Clermont, with the same blue Virgin in golden rays upon his surcoat
which had caused his quarrel with Chandos the night before. On the other
was a noble-featured grizzly-haired soldier, Arnold d'Andreghen, who
shared with Clermont the honor of being Marshal of France. Next to them
sat Lord James of Bourbon, a brave warrior who was afterwards slain by
the White Company at Brignais, and beside him a little group of German
noblemen, including the Earl of Salzburg and the Earl of Nassau, who
had ridden over the frontier with their formidable mercenaries at the
bidding of the French King. The ridged armor and the hanging nasals of
their bassinets were enough in themselves to tell every soldier that
they were from beyond the Rhine. At the other side of the table were a
line of proud and warlike Lords, Fiennes, Chatillon, Nesle, de Landas,
de Beaujeu, with the fierce knight errant de Chargny, he who had planned
the surprise of Calais, and Eustace de Ribeaumont, who had upon the same
occasion won the prize of valor from the hands of Edward of England.
Such were the chiefs to whom the King now turned for assistance and
advice.