Is it necessary, for example, to be told, as an inspired fact from
Christ's own lips, that Zacharias, the son of Barachias,[7] was struck
dead within the precincts of the Temple in the time of Christ, when, by
a curious chance, Josephus has independently narrated the incident as
having occurred during the siege of Jerusalem, thirty-seven years
later?  This makes it very clear that this particular Gospel, in its
present form, was written after that event, and that the writer fitted
into it at least one other incident which had struck his imagination.
Unfortunately, a revision by general agreement would be the greatest of
all miracles, for two of the very first texts to go would be those
which refer to the "Church," an institution and an idea utterly
unfamiliar in the days of Christ.  Since the object of the insertion of
these texts is perfectly clear, there can be no doubt that they are
forgeries, but as the whole system of the Papacy rests upon one of
them, they are likely to survive for a long time to come.  The text
alluded to is made further impossible because it is based upon the
supposition that Christ and His fishermen conversed together in Latin
or Greek, even to the extent of making puns in that language.  Surely
the want of moral courage and intellectual honesty among Christians
will seem as strange to our descendants as it appears marvellous to us
that the great thinkers of old could have believed, or at least have
pretended to believe, in the fighting sexual deities of Mount Olympus.