It was certainly not a post from which any one would hope for
credit. If he were slack and easy-going all would be well. But there
would be the chance of a second flight with its consequences. If he
were strict and assiduous he would be assuredly represented as a
petty tyrant. "I am glad when you are on outpost," said Lowe's
general in some campaign, "for then I am sure of a sound rest." He
was on outpost at St. Helena, and because he was true to his duties
Europe (France included) had a sound rest. But he purchased it at
the price of his own reputation. The greatest schemer in the world,
having nothing else on which to vent his energies, turned them all
to the task of vilifying his guardian. It was natural enough that he
who had never known control should not brook it now. It is natural
also that sentimentalists who have not thought of the details should
take the Emperor's point of view. What is deplorable, however, is
that our own people should be misled by one-sided accounts, and that
they should throw to the wolves a man who was serving his country in
a post of anxiety and danger, with such responsibility upon him as
few could ever have endured. Let them remember Montholon's remark:
"An angel from heaven would not have satisfied us." Let them recall
also that Lowe with ample material never once troubled to state his
own case. "Je fais mon devoir et suis indifferent pour le reste,"
said he, in his interview with the Emperor. They were no idle words.