And now after passing Holmesley Walk and the Wooton Heath, the forest
began to shred out into scattered belts of trees, with gleam of
corn-field and stretch of pasture-land between. Here and there by the
wayside stood little knots of wattle-and-daub huts with shock-haired
laborers lounging by the doors and red-cheeked children sprawling in
the roadway. Back among the groves he could see the high gable ends and
thatched roofs of the franklins' houses, on whose fields these men found
employment, or more often a thick dark column of smoke marked their
position and hinted at the coarse plenty within. By these signs Alleyne
knew that he was on the very fringe of the forest, and therefore no
great way from Christchurch. The sun was lying low in the west and
shooting its level rays across the long sweep of rich green country,
glinting on the white-fleeced sheep and throwing long shadows from the
red kine who waded knee-deep in the juicy clover. Right glad was the
traveller to see the high tower of Christchurch Priory gleaming in the
mellow evening light, and gladder still when, on rounding a corner, he
came upon his comrades of the morning seated astraddle upon a fallen
tree. They had a flat space before them, on which they alternately threw
little square pieces of bone, and were so intent upon their occupation
that they never raised eye as he approached them. He observed with
astonishment, as he drew near, that the archer's bow was on John's
back, the archer's sword by John's side, and the steel cap laid upon the
tree-trunk between them.