"No thank you," says he; "I should much prefer not to go aboard.  I
have only a few words to say to you, and they can very well be said
where we are.  I beg you not to imagine that I am in any way indebted
to you for making this journey.  I would have you to understand that it
is a matter of perfect indifference to me, and I refuse to entertain
the most remote sense of personal obligation.  Truth is truth, and
nothing which you can report can affect it in any way, though it may
excite the emotions and allay the curiosity of a number of very
ineffectual people.  My directions for your instruction and guidance
are in this sealed envelope.  You will open it when you reach a town
upon the Amazon which is called Manaos, but not until the date and hour
which is marked upon the outside.  Have I made myself clear?  I leave
the strict observance of my conditions entirely to your honor.  No, Mr.
Malone, I will place no restriction upon your correspondence, since the
ventilation of the facts is the object of your journey; but I demand
that you shall give no particulars as to your exact destination, and
that nothing be actually published until your return.  Good-bye, sir.
You have done something to mitigate my feelings for the loathsome
profession to which you unhappily belong.  Good-bye, Lord John.
Science is, as I understand, a sealed book to you; but you may
congratulate yourself upon the hunting-field which awaits you.  You
will, no doubt, have the opportunity of describing in the Field how you
brought down the rocketing dimorphodon.  And good-bye to you also,
Professor Summerlee.  If you are still capable of self-improvement, of
which I am frankly unconvinced, you will surely return to London a
wiser man."