Take the whole of that essay which describes a calm in the Tropics,
or take the other one "Sunrise as seen from the Crow's-nest," and
you must admit that there have been few finer pieces of descriptive
English in our time. If I had to choose a sea library of only a
dozen volumes I should certainly give Bullen two places. The others?
Well, it is so much a matter of individual taste. "Tom Cringle's
Log" should have one for certain. I hope boys respond now as they
once did to the sharks and the pirates, the planters, and all the
rollicking high spirits of that splendid book. Then there is Dana's
"Two Years before the Mast." I should find room also for Stevenson's
"Wrecker" and "Ebb Tide." Clark Russell deserves a whole shelf
for himself, but anyhow you could not miss out "The Wreck of the
Grosvenor." Marryat, of course, must be represented, and I should
pick "Midshipman Easy" and "Peter Simple" as his samples. Then
throw in one of Melville's Otaheite books--now far too completely
forgotten--"Typee" or "Omoo," and as a quite modern flavour
Kipling's "Captains Courageous" and Jack London's "Sea Wolf," with
Conrad's "Nigger of the Narcissus." Then you will have enough to
turn your study into a cabin and bring the wash and surge to your
cars, if written words can do it. Oh, how one longs for it sometimes
when life grows too artificial, and the old Viking blood begins to
stir! Surely it must linger in all of us, for no man who dwells in
an island but had an ancestor in longship or in coracle. Still more
must the salt drop tingle in the blood of an American when you
reflect that in all that broad continent there is not one whose
forefather did not cross 3000 miles of ocean. And yet there are in
the Central States millions and millions of their descendants who
have never seen the sea.