And now my patient readers, I can address you directly no longer.  From
now onwards (if, indeed, any continuation of this narrative should ever
reach you) it can only be through the paper which I represent.  In the
hands of the editor I leave this account of the events which have led
up to one of the most remarkable expeditions of all time, so that if I
never return to England there shall be some record as to how the affair
came about.  I am writing these last lines in the saloon of the Booth
liner Francisca, and they will go back by the pilot to the keeping of
Mr. McArdle.  Let me draw one last picture before I close the
notebook--a picture which is the last memory of the old country which I
bear away with me.  It is a wet, foggy morning in the late spring; a
thin, cold rain is falling.  Three shining mackintoshed figures are
walking down the quay, making for the gang-plank of the great liner
from which the blue-peter is flying.  In front of them a porter pushes
a trolley piled high with trunks, wraps, and gun-cases.  Professor
Summerlee, a long, melancholy figure, walks with dragging steps and
drooping head, as one who is already profoundly sorry for himself.
Lord John Roxton steps briskly, and his thin, eager face beams forth
between his hunting-cap and his muffler.  As for myself, I am glad to
have got the bustling days of preparation and the pangs of leave-taking
behind me, and I have no doubt that I show it in my bearing.  Suddenly,
just as we reach the vessel, there is a shout behind us.  It is
Professor Challenger, who had promised to see us off.  He runs after
us, a puffing, red-faced, irascible figure.