You who have sat with me before upon the green settee are familiar
with the upper shelf, with the tattered Macaulay, the dapper Gibbon,
the drab Boswell, the olive-green Scott, the pied Borrow, and all
the goodly company who rub shoulders yonder. By the way, how one
wishes that one's dear friends would only be friends also with each
other. Why should Borrow snarl so churlishly at Scott? One would
have thought that noble spirit and romantic fancy would have charmed
the huge vagrant, and yet there is no word too bitter for the
younger man to use towards the elder. The fact is that Borrow had
one dangerous virus in him--a poison which distorts the whole
vision--for he was a bigoted sectarian in religion, seeing no virtue
outside his own interpretation of the great riddle. Downright
heathendom, the blood-stained Berserk or the chaunting Druid,
appealed to his mind through his imagination, but the man of his
own creed and time who differed from him in minutiae of ritual, or
in the interpretation of mystic passages, was at once evil to the
bone, and he had no charity of any sort for such a person. Scott
therefore, with his reverent regard for old usages, became at once
hateful in his eyes. In any case he was a disappointed man, the big
Borrow, and I cannot remember that he ever had much to say that was
good of any brother author. Only in the bards of Wales and in the
Scalds of the Sagas did he seem to find his kindred spirits, though
it has been suggested that his complex nature took this means of
informing the world that he could read both Cymric and Norse. But we
must not be unkind behind the magic door--and yet to be charitable
to the uncharitable is surely the crown of virtue.