There were other shows, however, which I might see for nothing, and yet
were more real and every whit as interesting as any for which I
paid. Now and again upon a holiday I was permitted to walk down to
Portsmouth--once I was even taken in front of my father upon his pad
nag, and there I wandered with him through the streets with wondering
eyes, marvelling over the strange sights around me. The walls and the
moats, the gates and the sentinels, the long High Street with the great
government buildings, and the constant rattle of drums and blare of
trumpets; they made my little heart beat quicker beneath my sagathy
stuff jacket. Here was the house in which some thirty years before the
proud Duke of Buckingham had been struck down by the assassin’s dagger.
There, too, was the Governor’s dwelling, and I remember that even as I
looked he came riding up to it, red-faced and choleric, with a nose such
as a Governor should have, and his breast all slashed with gold. ‘Is he
not a fine man?’ I said, looking up at my father. He laughed and drew
his hat down over his brows. ‘It is the first time that I have seen Sir
Ralph Lingard’s face,’ said he, ‘but I saw his back at Preston fight.
Ah, lad, proud as he looks, if he did but see old Noll coming in through
the door he would not think it beneath him to climb out through the
window!’ The clank of steel or the sight of a buff-coat would always
serve to stir up the old Roundhead bitterness in my father’s breast.