“But the battle, Aylward, the battle!” cried several, amid a burst of
laughter. “I come to it, my young war-pups. Well, then, the King of France had
followed us with fifty thousand men, and he made great haste to catch
us, but when he had us he scarce knew what to do with us, for we were
so drawn up among hedges and vineyards that they could not come nigh us,
save by one lane. On both sides were archers, men-at-arms and knights
behind, and in the centre the baggage, with my feather-bed upon a
sutler's mule. Three hundred chosen knights came straight for it, and,
indeed, they were very brave men, but such a drift of arrows met them
that few came back. Then came the Germans, and they also fought very
bravely, so that one or two broke through the archers and came as far
as the feather-bed, but all to no purpose. Then out rides our own little
hothead with the patch over his eye, and my Lord Audley with his four
Cheshire squires, and a few others of like kidney, and after them went
the prince and Chandos, and then the whole throng of us, with axe and
sword, for we had shot away our arrows. Ma foi! it was a foolish thing,
for we came forth from the hedges, and there was naught to guard the
baggage had they ridden round behind us. But all went well with us, and
the king was taken, and little Robby Withstaff and I fell in with a wain
with twelve firkins of wine for the king's own table, and, by my hilt!
if you ask me what happened after that, I cannot answer you, nor can
little Robby Withstaff either.”