But there are certain other considerations which should have weight
when we contemplate this life and its efficacy as an example.  One of
these is that the very essence of it was that He critically examined
religion as He found it, and brought His robust common sense and
courage to bear in exposing the shams and in pointing out the better
path.  THAT is the hall-mark of the true follower of Christ, and not
the mute acceptance of doctrines which are, upon the face of them,
false and pernicious, because they come to us with some show of
authority.  What authority have we now, save this very life, which
could compare with those Jewish books which were so binding in their
force, and so immutably sacred that even the misspellings or pen-slips
of the scribe, were most carefully preserved?  It is a simple obvious
fact that if Christ had been orthodox, and had possessed what is so
often praised as a "child-like faith," there could have been no such
thing as Christianity.  Let reformers who love Him take heart as they
consider that they are indeed following in the footsteps of the Master,
who has at no time said that the revelation which He brought, and which
has been so imperfectly used, is the last which will come to mankind.
In our own times an equally great one has been released from the centre
of all truth, which will make as deep an impression upon the human race
as Christianity, though no predominant figure has yet appeared to
enforce its lessons.  Such a figure has appeared once when the days
were ripe, and I do not doubt that this may occur once more.