"My place is down among yonder men," said the young man. "I was not born
to drive goats and carry logs, but to sell this manhood of mine in the
best market. There is my market in the Emperor's own Guard. Say nothing,
daddy, for my mind is set, and if you weep now it will be to laugh
hereafter. I will to great Rome with the soldiers."        *       *       *       *       * The daily march of the heavily laden Roman legionary was fixed at twenty
miles; but on this afternoon, though only half the distance had been
accomplished, the silver trumpets blared out their welcome news that a
camp was to be formed. As the men broke their ranks, the reason of their
light march was announced by the decurions. It was the birthday of Geta,
the younger son of the Emperor, and in his honour there would be games
and a double ration of wine. But the iron discipline of the Roman army
required that under all circumstances certain duties should be
performed, and foremost among them that the camp should be made secure.
Laying down their arms in the order of their ranks, the soldiers seized
their spades and axes, and worked rapidly and joyously until sloping
vallum and gaping fossa girdled them round, and gave them safe refuge
against a night attack. Then in noisy, laughing, gesticulating crowds
they gathered in their thousands round the grassy arena where the sports
were to be held. A long green hill-side sloped down to a level plain,
and on this gentle incline the army lay watching the strife of the
chosen athletes who contended before them. They stretched themselves in
the glare of the sunshine, their heavy tunics thrown off, and their
naked limbs sprawling, wine-cups and baskets of fruit and cakes circling
amongst them, enjoying rest and peace as only those can to whom it comes
so rarely.