And now set in a fell and fierce fight, one of a thousand of which no
chronicler has spoken and no poet sung. Through all the centuries and
over all those southern waters nameless men have fought in nameless
places, their sole monuments a protected coast and an unravaged
country-side. Fore and aft the archers had cleared the galleys' decks, but from either
side the rovers had poured down into the waist, where the seamen and
bowmen were pushed back and so mingled with their foes that it was
impossible for their comrades above to draw string to help them. It
was a wild chaos where axe and sword rose and fell, while Englishman,
Norman, and Italian staggered and reeled on a deck which was cumbered
with bodies and slippery with blood. The clang of blows, the cries of
the stricken, the short, deep shout of the islanders, and the fierce
whoops of the rovers, rose together in a deafening tumult, while the
breath of the panting men went up in the wintry air like the smoke from
a furnace. The giant Tete-noire, towering above his fellows and clad
from head to foot in plate of proof, led on his boarders, waving a
huge mace in the air, with which he struck to the deck every man who
approached him. On the other side, Spade-beard, a dwarf in height, but
of great breadth of shoulder and length of arm, had cut a road almost
to the mast, with three-score Genoese men-at-arms close at his heels.
Between these two formidable assailants the seamen were being slowly
wedged more closely together, until they stood back to back under the
mast with the rovers raging upon every side of them.