We listened intently, but nothing save the calling of the birds broke
the deep peace of the forest.  Lord Roxton went on with his story. "I think you have had the escape of your life, young fellah my lad.  It
was catchin' those Indians that put you clean out of their heads, else
they would have been back to the camp for you as sure as fate and
gathered you in.  Of course, as you said, they have been watchin' us
from the beginnin' out of that tree, and they knew perfectly well that
we were one short.  However, they could think only of this new haul; so
it was I, and not a bunch of apes, that dropped in on you in the
morning.  Well, we had a horrid business afterwards.  My God!  what a
nightmare the whole thing is!  You remember the great bristle of sharp
canes down below where we found the skeleton of the American?  Well,
that is just under ape-town, and that's the jumpin'-off place of their
prisoners.  I expect there's heaps of skeletons there, if we looked for
'em.  They have a sort of clear parade-ground on the top, and they make
a proper ceremony about it.  One by one the poor devils have to jump,
and the game is to see whether they are merely dashed to pieces or
whether they get skewered on the canes.  They took us out to see it,
and the whole tribe lined up on the edge.  Four of the Indians jumped,
and the canes went through 'em like knittin' needles through a pat of
butter.  No wonder we found that poor Yankee's skeleton with the canes
growin' between his ribs.  It was horrible--but it was doocedly
interestin' too.  We were all fascinated to see them take the dive,
even when we thought it would be our turn next on the spring-board.