To Holmes I wrote showing how rapidly and surely I had got down to the
roots of the matter. In reply I had a telegram asking for a description
of Dr. Shlessinger’s left ear. Holmes’s ideas of humour are strange and
occasionally offensive, so I took no notice of his ill-timed
jest—indeed, I had already reached Montpellier in my pursuit of the
maid, Marie, before his message came. I had no difficulty in finding the ex-servant and in learning all that
she could tell me. She was a devoted creature, who had only left her
mistress because she was sure that she was in good hands, and because
her own approaching marriage made a separation inevitable in any case.
Her mistress had, as she confessed with distress, shown some
irritability of temper towards her during their stay in Baden, and had
even questioned her once as if she had suspicions of her honesty, and
this had made the parting easier than it would otherwise have been.
Lady Frances had given her fifty pounds as a wedding-present. Like me,
Marie viewed with deep distrust the stranger who had driven her
mistress from Lausanne. With her own eyes she had seen him seize the
lady’s wrist with great violence on the public promenade by the lake.
He was a fierce and terrible man. She believed that it was out of dread
of him that Lady Frances had accepted the escort of the Shlessingers to
London. She had never spoken to Marie about it, but many little signs
had convinced the maid that her mistress lived in a state of continual
nervous apprehension. So far she had got in her narrative, when
suddenly she sprang from her chair and her face was convulsed with
surprise and fear. “See!” she cried. “The miscreant follows still!
There is the very man of whom I speak.”