Such, in very condensed form, is the world which is revealed to us by
these wonderful messages from the beyond.  Is it an unreasonable
vision?  Is it in any way opposed to just principles?  Is it not rather
so reasonable that having got the clue we could now see that, given any
life at all, this is exactly the line upon which we should expect to
move?  Nature and evolution are averse from sudden disconnected
developments.  If a human being has technical, literary, musical, or
other tendencies, they are an essential part of his character, and to
survive without them would be to lose his identity and to become an
entirely different man.  They must therefore survive death if
personality is to be maintained.  But it is no use their surviving
unless they can find means of expression, and means of expression seem
to require certain material agents, and also a discriminating audience.
So also the sense of modesty among civilised races has become part of
our very selves, and implies some covering of our forms if personality
is to continue.  Our desires and sympathies would prompt us to live
with those we love, which implies something in the nature of a house,
while the human need for mental rest and privacy would predicate the
existence of separate rooms.  Thus, merely starting from the basis of
the continuity of personality one might, even without the revelation
from the beyond, have built up some such system by the use of pure
reason and deduction.