But their men! Alas, what a drop is there! To say that we are all
capable of doing what Tom Jones did--as I have seen stated--is the
worst form of inverted cant, the cant which makes us out worse than
we are. It is a libel on mankind to say that a man who truly loves
a woman is usually false to her, and, above all, a libel that he
should be false in the vile fashion which aroused good Tom Newcome's
indignation. Tom Jones was no more fit to touch the hem of Sophia's
dress than Captain Booth was to be the mate of Amelia. Never once
has Fielding drawn a gentleman, save perhaps Squire Alworthy. A
lusty, brawling, good-hearted, material creature was the best that
he could fashion. Where, in his heroes, is there one touch of
distinction, of spirituality, of nobility? Here I think that the
plebeian printer has done very much better than the aristocrat.
Sir Charles Grandison is a very noble type--spoiled a little by
over-coddling on the part of his creator, perhaps, but a very
high-souled and exquisite gentleman all the same. Had _he_ married
Sophia or Amelia I should not have forbidden the banns. Even the
persevering Mr. B--- and the too amorous Lovelace were, in spite of
their aberrations, men of gentle nature, and had possibilities of
greatness and tenderness within them. Yes, I cannot doubt that
Richardson drew the higher type of man--and that in Grandison he
has done what has seldom or never been bettered.