"No:  it is clear and concise." "Well, now, let us put ourselves in the place of Jonathan Small. Let us
look at it from his point of view.  He comes to England with the double
idea of regaining what he would consider to be his rights and of having
his revenge upon the man who had wronged him.  He found out where
Sholto lived, and very possibly he established communications with some
one inside the house.  There is this butler, Lal Rao, whom we have not
seen.  Mrs. Bernstone gives him far from a good character. Small could
not find out, however, where the treasure was hid, for no one ever
knew, save the major and one faithful servant who had died.  Suddenly
Small learns that the major is on his death-bed.  In a frenzy lest the
secret of the treasure die with him, he runs the gauntlet of the
guards, makes his way to the dying man's window, and is only deterred
from entering by the presence of his two sons.  Mad with hate, however,
against the dead man, he enters the room that night, searches his
private papers in the hope of discovering some memorandum relating to
the treasure, and finally leaves a momento of his visit in the short
inscription upon the card.  He had doubtless planned beforehand that
should he slay the major he would leave some such record upon the body
as a sign that it was not a common murder, but, from the point of view
of the four associates, something in the nature of an act of justice.
Whimsical and bizarre conceits of this kind are common enough in the
annals of crime, and usually afford valuable indications as to the
criminal.  Do you follow all this?"