When we returned to Mrs. Warren’s rooms, the gloom of a London winter
evening had thickened into one grey curtain, a dead monotone of colour,
broken only by the sharp yellow squares of the windows and the blurred
haloes of the gas-lamps. As we peered from the darkened sitting-room of
the lodging-house, one more dim light glimmered high up through the
obscurity. “Someone is moving in that room,” said Holmes in a whisper, his gaunt
and eager face thrust forward to the window-pane. “Yes, I can see his
shadow. There he is again! He has a candle in his hand. Now he is
peering across. He wants to be sure that she is on the lookout. Now he
begins to flash. Take the message also, Watson, that we may check each
other. A single flash—that is A, surely. Now, then. How many did you
make it? Twenty. So did I. That should mean T. AT—that’s intelligible
enough. Another T. Surely this is the beginning of a second word. Now,
then—TENTA. Dead stop. That can’t be all, Watson? ATTENTA gives no
sense. Nor is it any better as three words AT, TEN, TA, unless T. A.
are a person’s initials. There it goes again! What’s that? ATTE—why, it
is the same message over again. Curious, Watson, very curious. Now he
is off once more! AT—why he is repeating it for the third time. ATTENTA
three times! How often will he repeat it? No, that seems to be the
finish. He has withdrawn from the window. What do you make of it,
Watson?”