The genuineness of his psychic powers has never been seriously
questioned, and was as well recognised in Rome and Paris as in London.
One incident only darkened his career, and it, was one in which he was
blameless, as anyone who carefully weighs the evidence must admit.  I
allude to the action taken against him by Mrs. Lyon, who, after
adopting him as her son and settling a large sum of money upon him,
endeavoured to regain, and did regain, this money by her unsupported
assertion that he had persuaded her illicitly to make him the
allowance.  The facts of his life are, in my judgment, ample proof of
the truth of the Spiritualist position, if no other proof at all had
been available.  It is to be remarked in the career of this entirely
honest and unvenal medium that he had periods in his life when his
powers deserted him completely, that he could foresee these lapses, and
that, being honest and unvenal, he simply abstained from all attempts
until the power returned.  It is this intermittent character of the
gift which is, in my opinion, responsible for cases when a medium who
has passed the most rigid tests upon certain occasions is afterwards
detected in simulating, very clumsily, the results which he had once
successfully accomplished.  The real power having failed, he has not
the moral courage to admit it, nor the self-denial to forego his fee
which he endeavours to earn by a travesty of what was once genuine.
Such an explanation would cover some facts which otherwise are hard to
reconcile.  We must also admit that some mediums are extremely
irresponsible and feather-headed people.  A friend of mine, who sat
with Eusapia Palladino, assured me that he saw her cheat in the most
childish and bare-faced fashion, and yet immediately afterwards
incidents occurred which were absolutely beyond any, normal powers to
produce.