‘And how comes so sudden a reverse of fortune?’ I asked. ‘Fill up your glasses!’ cried the old man, suiting the action to the
word. ‘Here’s a toast for you! Perdition to all faithless princes!
How came it about, ye ask? Why, when the troubles came upon the first
Charles, I stood by him as though he had been mine own brother. At
Edgehill, at Naseby, in twenty skirmishes and battles, I fought stoutly
in his cause, maintaining a troop of horse at my own expense, formed
from among my own gardeners, grooms, and attendants. Then the military
chest ran low, and money must be had to carry on the contest. My silver
chargers and candlesticks were thrown into the melting-pot, as were
those of many another cavalier. They went in metal and they came out
as troopers and pikemen. So we tided over a few months until again the
purse was empty, and again we filled it amongst us. This time it was the
home farm and the oak trees that went. Then came Marston Moor, and every
penny and man was needed to repair that great disaster. I flinched not,
but gave everything. This boiler of soap, a prudent, fat-cheeked man,
had kept himself free from civil broils, and had long had a covetous eye
upon the castle. It was his ambition, poor worm, to be a gentleman, as
though a gabled roof and a crumbling house could ever make him that. I
let him have his way, however, and threw the sum received, every guinea
of it, into the King’s coffers. And so I held out until the final ruin
of Worcester, when I covered the retreat of the young prince, and may
indeed say that save in the Isle of Man I was the last Royalist who
upheld the authority of the crown. The Commonwealth had set a price upon
my head as a dangerous malignant, so I was forced to take my passage in
a Harwich ketch, and arrived in the Lowlands with nothing save my sword
and a few broad pieces in my pocket.’