De Comines, as a chronicler, is less quaint and more conventional
than Froissart, but the writer of romance can dig plenty of stones
out of that quarry for the use of his own little building. Of course
Quentin Durward has come bodily out of the pages of De Comines. The
whole history of Louis XI. and his relations with Charles the Bold,
the strange life at Plessis-le-Tours, the plebeian courtiers, the
barber and the hangman, the astrologers, the alternations of savage
cruelty and of slavish superstition--it is all set forth here. One
would imagine that such a monarch was unique, that such a mixture of
strange qualities and monstrous crimes could never be matched, and
yet like causes will always produce like results. Read Walewski's
"Life of Ivan the Terrible," and you will find that more than a
century later Russia produced a monarch even more diabolical,
but working exactly on the same lines as Louis, even down to
small details. The same cruelty, the same superstition, the same
astrologers, the same low-born associates, the same residence
outside the influence of the great cities--a parallel could hardly
be more complete. If you have not supped too full of horrors when
you have finished Ivan, then pass on to the same author's account of
Peter the Great. What a land! What a succession of monarchs! Blood
and snow and iron! Both Ivan and Peter killed their own sons. And
there is a hideous mockery of religion running through it all which
gives it a grotesque horror of its own. We have had our Henry the
Eighth, but our very worst would have been a wise and benevolent
rule in Russia.