These words, as I have said, I wrote down in my note-book, and they
reflected accurately the thoughts which I found rooted far down in my
soul, ever present and unaffected by the passing emotions of the hour.
At last, however, came a time when my uncle, M'Vittie of Glencairn,
died--the same who was at one time chairman of committees of the House
of Commons. He divided his great wealth among his many nephews, and I
found myself with sufficient to provide amply for my wants during the
remainder of my life, and became at the same time the owner of a bleak
tract of land upon the coast of Caithness, which I think the old man
must have bestowed upon me in derision, for it was sandy and valueless,
and he had ever a grim sense of humour. Up to this time I had been an
attorney in a midland town in England. Now I saw that I could put my
thoughts into effect, and, leaving all petty and sordid aims, could
elevate my mind by the study of the secrets of nature. My departure from
my English home was somewhat accelerated by the fact that I had nearly
slain a man in a quarrel, for my temper was fiery, and I was apt to
forget my own strength when enraged. There was no legal action taken in
the matter, but the papers yelped at me, and folk looked askance when I
met them. It ended by my cursing them and their vile, smoke-polluted
town, and hurrying to my northern possession, where I might at last find
peace and an opportunity for solitary study and contemplation. I
borrowed from my capital before I went, and so was able to take with me
a choice collection of the most modern philosophical instruments and
books, together with chemicals and such other things as I might need in
my retirement.