Where could I get better illustration of what I mean than in those
three little volumes which make up Wendell Holmes' immortal series,
"The Autocrat," "The Poet," and "The Professor at the Breakfast
Table"? Here the subtle, dainty, delicate thought is continually
reinforced by the allusion or the analogy which shows the wide,
accurate knowledge behind it. What work it is! how wise, how witty,
how large-hearted and tolerant! Could one choose one's philosopher
in the Elysian fields, as once in Athens, I would surely join the
smiling group who listened to the human, kindly words of the Sage
of Boston. I suppose it is just that continual leaven of science,
especially of medical science, which has from my early student days
given those books so strong an attraction for me. Never have I
so known and loved a man whom I had never seen. It was one of the
ambitions of my lifetime to look upon his face, but by the irony of
Fate I arrived in his native city just in time to lay a wreath upon
his newly-turned grave. Read his books again, and see if you are not
especially struck by the up-to-dateness of them. Like Tennyson's "In
Memoriam," it seems to me to be work which sprang into full flower
fifty years before its time. One can hardly open a page haphazard
without lighting upon some passage which illustrates the breadth of
view, the felicity of phrase, and the singular power of playful but
most suggestive analogy. Here, for example, is a paragraph--no
better than a dozen others--which combines all the rare qualities:--