‘Friends in the faith,’ he said, ‘I thank the Lord that I have been
spared in my old age to look down upon this goodly assembly. For we of
Taunton have ever kept the flame of the Covenant burning amongst us,
obscured it may be at times by time-servers and Laodiceans, but none the
less burning in the hearts of our people. All round us, however,
there was a worse than Egyptian darkness, where Popery and Prelacy,
Arminianism, Erastianism, and Simony might rage and riot unchecked and
unconfined. But what do I see now? Do I see the faithful cowering
in their hiding-places and straining their ears for the sound of the
horsehoof’s of their oppressors? Do I see a time-serving generation,
with lies on their lips and truth buried in their hearts? No! I see
before me godly men, not from this fair city only, but from the broad
country round, and from Dorset, and from Wiltshire, and some even as I
hear from Hampshire, all ready and eager to do mighty work in the cause
of the Lord. And when I see these faithful men, and when I think that
every broad piece in the strong boxes of my townsmen is ready to support
them, and when I know that the persecuted remnant throughout the country
is wrestling hard in prayer for us, then a voice speaks within me and
tells me that we shall tear down the idols of Dagon, and build up in
this England of ours such a temple of the true faith that not Popery,
nor Prelacy, nor idolatry, nor any other device of the Evil One shall
ever prevail against it.’