Alleyne, standing with his sword drawn amidst the archers, saw a long
toss and heave of the glittering squadrons. Then the front ranks began
to surge slowly forward, to trot, to canter, to gallop, and in an
instant the whole vast array was hurtling onward, line after line, the
air full of the thunder of their cries, the ground shaking with the beat
of their hoofs, the valley choked with the rushing torrent of steel,
topped by the waving plumes, the slanting spears and the fluttering
banderoles. On they swept over the level and up to the slope, ere they
met the blinding storm of the English arrows. Down went the whole ranks
in a whirl of mad confusion, horses plunging and kicking, bewildered men
falling, rising, staggering on or back, while ever new lines of horsemen
came spurring through the gaps and urged their chargers up the fatal
slope. All around him Alleyne could hear the stern, short orders of the
master-bowmen, while the air was filled with the keen twanging of the
strings and the swish and patter of the shafts. Right across the foot
of the hill there had sprung up a long wall of struggling horses and
stricken men, which ever grew and heightened as fresh squadrons poured
on the attack. One young knight on a gray jennet leaped over his fallen
comrades and galloped swiftly up the hill, shrieking loudly upon Saint
James, ere he fell within a spear-length of the English line, with the
feathers of arrows thrusting out from every crevice and joint of his
armor. So for five long minutes the gallant horsemen of Spain and of
France strove ever and again to force a passage, until the wailing
note of a bugle called them back, and they rode slowly out of bow-shot,
leaving their best and their bravest in the ghastly, blood-mottled heap
behind them.