Thus the phenomena associated with the rise of Christianity and those
which have appeared during the present spiritual ferment are very
analogous.  In examining the gifts of the disciples, as mentioned by
Matthew and Mark, the only additional point is the raising of the dead.
If any of them besides their great leader did in truth rise to this
height of power, where life was actually extinct, then he, undoubtedly,
far transcended anything which is recorded of modern mediumship.  It is
clear, however, that such a power must have been very rare, since it
would otherwise have been used to revive the bodies of their own
martyrs, which does not seem to have been attempted.  For Christ the
power is clearly admitted, and there are little touches in the
description of how it was exercised by Him which are extremely
convincing to a psychic student.  In the account of how He raised
Lazarus from the grave after he had been four days dead--far the most
wonderful of all Christ's miracles--it is recorded that as He went down
to the graveside He was "groaning."  Why was He groaning?  No Biblical
student seems to have given a satisfactory reason.  But anyone who has
heard a medium groaning before any great manifestation of power will
read into this passage just that touch of practical knowledge, which
will convince him of its truth.  The miracle, I may add, is none the
less wonderful or beyond our human powers, because it was wrought by an
extension of natural law, differing only in degree with that which we
can ourselves test and even do.