CHAPTER 39. THE END. It only remains in one short chapter to narrate the progress of the
peace negotiations, the ultimate settlement, and the final consequences
of this long-drawn war. However disheartening the successive incidents
may have been in which the Boers were able to inflict heavy losses upon
us and to renew their supplies of arms and ammunition, it was none the
less certain that their numbers were waning and that the inevitable end
was steadily approaching. With mathematical precision the scientific
soldier in Pretoria, with his web of barbed wire radiating out over
the whole country, was week by week wearing them steadily down. And
yet after the recent victory of De la Rey and various braggadocio
pronouncements from the refugees at The Hague, it was somewhat of a
surprise to the British public when it was announced upon March 22nd
that the acting Government of the Transvaal, consisting of Messrs.
Schalk Burger, Lucas Meyer, Reitz, Jacoby, Krogh, and Van Velden had
come into Middelburg and requested to be forwarded by train to Pretoria
for the purpose of discussing terms of peace with Lord Kitchener. A
thrill of hope ran through the Empire at the news, but so doubtful did
the issue seem that none of the preparations were relaxed which would
ensure a vigorous campaign in the immediate future. In the South African
as in the Peninsular and in the Crimean wars, it may truly be said that
Great Britain was never so ready to fight as at the dawning of peace. At
least two years of failure and experience are needed to turn a civilian
and commercial nation into a military power.