The modern masculine novel, dealing almost exclusively with the
rougher, more stirring side of life, with the objective rather than
the subjective, marks the reaction against the abuse of love in
fiction. This one phase of life in its orthodox aspect, and ending
in the conventional marriage, has been so hackneyed and worn to a
shadow, that it is not to be wondered at that there is a tendency
sometimes to swing to the other extreme, and to give it less than
its fair share in the affairs of men. In British fiction nine books
out of ten have held up love and marriage as the be-all and end-all
of life. Yet we know, in actual practice, that this may not be so.
In the career of the average man his marriage is an incident, and a
momentous incident; but it is only one of several. He is swayed by
many strong emotions--his business, his ambitions, his friendships,
his struggles with the recurrent dangers and difficulties which tax
a man's wisdom and his courage. Love will often play a subordinate
part in his life. How many go through the world without ever loving
at all? It jars upon us then to have it continually held up as
the predominating, all-important fact in life; and there is a not
unnatural tendency among a certain school, of which Stevenson is
certainly the leader, to avoid altogether a source of interest which
has been so misused and overdone. If all love-making were like that
between Richard Feverel and Lucy Desborough, then indeed we could
not have too much of it; but to be made attractive once more, the
passion must be handled by some great master who has courage to
break down conventionalities and to go straight to actual life for
his inspiration.