Now, what can the fair-minded inquirer say to such a story as that--one
of many, but for the moment we are concentrating upon it?  Was Mr.
Crookes a blasphemous liar?  But there were very many witnesses, as
many sometimes as eight at a single sitting.  And there are the
photographs which include Miss Cook and show that the two women were
quite different.  Was he honestly mistaken?  But that is inconceivable.
Read the original narrative and see if you can find any solution save
that it is true.  If a man can read that sober, cautious statement and
not be convinced, then assuredly his brain, is out of gear.  Finally,
ask yourself whether any religious manifestation in the world has had
anything like the absolute proof which lies in this one.  Cannot the
orthodox see that instead of combating such a story, or talking
nonsense about devils, they should hail that which is indeed the final
answer to that materialism which is their really dangerous enemy.  Even
as I write, my eye falls upon a letter on my desk from an officer who
had lost all faith in immortality and become an absolute materialist.
"I came to dread my return home, for I cannot stand hypocrisy, and I
knew well my attitude would cause some members of my family deep grief.
Your book has now brought me untold comfort, and I can face the future
cheerfully."  Are these fruits from the Devil's tree, you timid
orthodox critic?