"Yes, sir." The butler closed his fingers upon the card and the
half-sovereign which accompanied it. "Better hang your coat up here in
the hall. It is very wet. Now, if you will wait here in the
consulting-room I have no doubt that I shall be able to send the doctor
in to you." It was a large and lofty room in which the young baronet found himself.
The carpet was so soft and thick that his feet made no sound as he
walked across it. The two gas-jets were turned only half-way up, and the
dim light with the faint aromatic smell which filled the air had a
vaguely religious suggestion. He sat down in a shining leather arm-chair
by the smouldering fire and looked gloomily about him. Two sides of the
room were taken up with books, fat and sombre, with broad gold lettering
upon their backs. Beside him was the high, old-fashioned mantelpiece of
white marble, the top of it strewed with cotton wadding and bandages,
graduated measures and little bottles. There was one with a broad neck,
just above him, containing bluestone, and another narrower one with what
looked like the ruins of a broken pipe stem, and "Caustic" outside upon
a red label. Thermometers, hypodermic syringes, bistouries and spatulas
were scattered thickly about, both on the mantelpiece and on the central
table on either side of the sloping desk. On the same table to the right
stood copies of the five books which Dr. Horace Selby had written upon
the subject with which his name is peculiarly associated, while on the
left, on the top of a red medical directory, lay a huge glass model of a
human eye, the size of a turnip, which opened down the centre to expose
the lens and double chamber within.