I should not say such a thing, even in the privacy of my own intimate
journal, if it had not come to such a pass that it is impossible to
ignore it.  For some time,--that is, for the last week,--there have
been signs which I have brushed aside and refused to think of.  Her
brightness when I come, her dejection when I go, her eagerness that I
should come often, the expression of her eyes, the tone of her voice--I
tried to think that they meant nothing, and were, perhaps, only her
ardent West Indian manner.  But last night, as I awoke from the
mesmeric sleep, I put out my hand, unconsciously, involuntarily, and
clasped hers.  When I came fully to myself, we were sitting with them
locked, she looking up at me with an expectant smile.  And the horrible
thing was that I felt impelled to say what she expected me to say.
What a false wretch I should have been!  How I should have loathed
myself to-day had I yielded to the temptation of that moment!  But,
thank God, I was strong enough to spring up and hurry from the room.  I
was rude, I fear, but I could not, no, I COULD not, trust myself
another moment.  I, a gentleman, a man of honor, engaged to one of the
sweetest girls in England--and yet in a moment of reasonless passion I
nearly professed love for this woman whom I hardly know.  She is far
older than myself and a cripple.  It is monstrous, odious; and yet the
impulse was so strong that, had I stayed another minute in her
presence, I should have committed myself.  What was it?  I have to
teach others the workings of our organism, and what do I know of it
myself?  Was it the sudden upcropping of some lower stratum in my
nature--a brutal primitive instinct suddenly asserting itself?  I could
almost believe the tales of obsession by evil spirits, so overmastering
was the feeling.