‘A strange adventure truly,’ exclaimed Saxon. ‘How fared it with you for
the remainder of the evening?’ ‘But scurvily, for Charles’s face, which was black enough at all
times, was blackest of all to us; nor was his brother the Papist more
complaisant. They had but brought us there that they might dazzle us
with their glitter and gee-gaws, in order that we might bear a fine
report of them back to the West with us. There were supple-backed
courtiers, and strutting nobles, and hussies with their shoulders bare,
who should for all their high birth have been sent to Bridewell as
readily as any poor girl who ever walked at the cart’s tail. Then there
were the gentlemen of the chamber, with cinnamon and plum-coloured
coats, and a brave show of gold lace and silk and ostrich feather.
Neighbour Foster and I felt as two crows might do who have wandered
among the peacocks. Yet we bare in mind in whose image we were
fashioned, and we carried ourselves, I trust, as independent English
burghers. His Grace of Buckingham had his flout at us, and Rochester
sneered, and the women simpered; but we stood four square, my friend
and I, discussing, as I well remember, the most precious doctrines of
election and reprobation, without giving much heed either to those who
mocked us, or to the gamesters upon our left, or to the dancers upon
our right. So we stood throughout the evening, until, finding that they
could get little sport from us, my Lord Clarendon, the Chancellor, gave
us the word to retire, which we did at our leisure after saluting the
King and the company.’