‘Yes, truly,’ I exclaimed, ‘I see a bright shimmer coming and going. And
there to the left, where the road curves over the hill, mark you that
dense mass of men! Ha! the head of the column begins to emerge from the
trees.’ There was not a cloud in the sky, but the great heat had caused a haze
to overlie the valley, gathering thickly along the winding course of
the river, and hanging in little sprays and feathers over the woodlands
which clothe its banks. Through this filmy vapour there broke from time
to time fierce sparkles of brilliant light as the sun’s rays fell upon
breastplate or headpiece. Now and again the gentle summer breeze
wafted up sudden pulses of martial music to our ears, with the blare of
trumpets and the long deep snarl of the drums. As we gazed, the van of
the army began to roll out from the cover of the trees and to darken the
white dusty roads. The long line slowly extended itself, writhing out of
the forest land like a dark snake with sparkling scales, until the whole
rebel army--horse, foot, and ordnance--were visible beneath us. The
gleam of the weapons, the waving of numerous banners, the plumes of the
leaders, and the deep columns of marching men, made up a picture which
stirred the very hearts of the citizens, who, from the housetops and
from the ruinous summit of the dismantled walls, were enabled to gaze
down upon the champions of their faith. If the mere sight of a passing
regiment will cause a thrill in your bosoms, you can fancy how it is
when the soldiers upon whom you look are in actual arms for your own
dearest and most cherished interests, and have just come out victorious
from a bloody struggle. If every other man’s hand was against us, these
at least were on our side, and our hearts went out to them as to friends
and brothers. Of all the ties that unite men in this world, that of a
common danger is the strongest.