We pushed on our way accordingly, passing at a safe distance from Mere,
which is the village where the second Charles did conceal himself after
the battle of Worcester. The road beyond was much crowded by peasants,
who were making their way out of Somersetshire, and by farmers’ waggons,
which were taking loads of food to the West, ready to turn a few guineas
either from the King’s men or from the rebels. We questioned many as to
the news from the war, but though we were now on the outskirts of the
disturbed country, we could gain no clear account of how matters stood,
save that all agreed that the rising was on the increase. The country
through which we rode was a beautiful one, consisting of low swelling
hills, well tilled and watered by numerous streamlets. Crossing over the
river Brue by a good stone bridge, we at last reached the small country
town for which we had been making, which lies embowered in the midst of
a broad expanse of fertile meadows, orchards, and sheep-walks. From the
rising ground by the town we looked back over the plain without seeing
any traces of the troopers. We learned, too, from an old woman of the
place, that though a troop of the Wiltshire Yeomanry had passed through
the day before, there were no soldiers quartered at present in the
neighbourhood. Thus assured we rode boldly into the town, and soon found
our way to the principal inn. I have some dim remembrance of an
ancient church upon an eminence, and of a quaint stone cross within the
market-place, but assuredly, of all the recollections which I retain of
Bruton there is none so pleasing as that of the buxom landlady’s face,
and of the steaming dishes which she lost no time in setting before us.