“Tiphaine,” cried Du Guesclin, “I have always loved you; and now, by Our
Lady of Rennes! I love you more than ever. Did I not know that your hand
will be as ready as your words I would myself turn my last blow upon
you, ere you should fall into their hands. Lead on, Godfrey! A new
golden pyx will shine in the minster of Dinan if we come safely through
with it.” The attention of the insurgents had been drawn away from murder to
plunder, and all over the castle might be heard their cries and whoops
of delight as they dragged forth the rich tapestries, the silver
flagons, and the carved furniture. Down in the courtyard half-clad
wretches, their bare limbs all mottled with blood-stains, strutted
about with plumed helmets upon their heads, or with the Lady Rochefort's
silken gowns girt round their loins and trailing on the ground behind
them. Casks of choice wine had been rolled out from the cellars, and
starving peasants squatted, goblet in hand, draining off vintages which
De Rochefort had set aside for noble and royal guests. Others, with
slabs of bacon and joints of dried meat upon the ends of their pikes,
held them up to the blaze or tore at them ravenously with their teeth.
Yet all order had not been lost amongst them, for some hundreds of the
better armed stood together in a silent group, leaning upon their rude
weapons and looking up at the fire, which had spread so rapidly as to
involve one whole side of the castle. Already Alleyne could hear the
crackling and roaring of the flames, while the air was heavy with heat
and full of the pungent whiff of burning wood.