In front of and around this dejected group of prisoners were several
ape-men, who watched them closely and made all escape impossible.
Then, right out from all the others and close to the edge of the cliff,
were two figures, so strange, and under other circumstances so
ludicrous, that they absorbed my attention.  The one was our comrade,
Professor Challenger.  The remains of his coat still hung in strips
from his shoulders, but his shirt had been all torn out, and his great
beard merged itself in the black tangle which covered his mighty chest.
He had lost his hat, and his hair, which had grown long in our
wanderings, was flying in wild disorder.  A single day seemed to have
changed him from the highest product of modern civilization to the most
desperate savage in South America.  Beside him stood his master, the
king of the ape-men.  In all things he was, as Lord John had said, the
very image of our Professor, save that his coloring was red instead of
black.  The same short, broad figure, the same heavy shoulders, the
same forward hang of the arms, the same bristling beard merging itself
in the hairy chest.  Only above the eyebrows, where the sloping
forehead and low, curved skull of the ape-man were in sharp contrast to
the broad brow and magnificent cranium of the European, could one see
any marked difference.  At every other point the king was an absurd
parody of the Professor.