"Well, it must be a little vague in detail, but the main points seem to
me to be clear enough.  This fellow Bellingham, in his Eastern studies,
has got hold of some infernal secret by which a mummy--or possibly only
this particular mummy--can be temporarily brought to life.  He was
trying this disgusting business on the night when he fainted.  No doubt
the sight of the creature moving had shaken his nerve, even though he
had expected it.  You remember that almost the first words he said were
to call out upon himself as a fool.  Well, he got more hardened
afterwards, and carried the matter through without fainting.  The
vitality which he could put into it was evidently only a passing thing,
for I have seen it continually in its case as dead as this table.  He
has some elaborate process, I fancy, by which he brings the thing to
pass.  Having done it, he naturally bethought him that he might use the
creature as an agent.  It has intelligence and it has strength.  For
some purpose he took Lee into his confidence; but Lee, like a decent
Christian, would have nothing to do with such a business.  Then they
had a row, and Lee vowed that he would tell his sister of Bellingham's
true character.  Bellingham's game was to prevent him, and he nearly
managed it, by setting this creature of his on his track.  He had
already tried its powers upon another man--Norton--towards whom he had
a grudge.  It is the merest chance that he has not two murders upon his
soul.  Then, when I taxed him with the matter, he had the strongest
reasons for wishing to get me out of the way before I could convey my
knowledge to anyone else.  He got his chance when I went out, for he
knew my habits, and where I was bound for.  I have had a narrow shave,
Peterson, and it is mere luck you didn't find me on your doorstep in
the morning.  I'm not a nervous man as a rule, and I never thought to
have the fear of death put upon me as it was to-night."