"South American," I hazarded. He stretched his hand up, and took down a bulky volume from the shelf.
"This is the first volume of a gazetteer which is now being published.
It may be looked upon as the very latest authority.  What have we here?
'Andaman Islands, situated 340 miles to the north of Sumatra, in the
Bay of Bengal.'  Hum! hum! What's all this?  Moist climate, coral
reefs, sharks, Port Blair, convict-barracks, Rutland Island,
cottonwoods--Ah, here we are. 'The aborigines of the Andaman Islands
may perhaps claim the distinction of being the smallest race upon this
earth, though some anthropologists prefer the Bushmen of Africa, the
Digger Indians of America, and the Terra del Fuegians.  The average
height is rather below four feet, although many full-grown adults may
be found who are very much smaller than this.  They are a fierce,
morose, and intractable people, though capable of forming most devoted
friendships when their confidence has once been gained.'  Mark that,
Watson.  Now, then, listen to this.  'They are naturally hideous,
having large, misshapen heads, small, fierce eyes, and distorted
features.  Their feet and hands, however, are remarkably small.  So
intractable and fierce are they that all the efforts of the British
official have failed to win them over in any degree.  They have always
been a terror to shipwrecked crews, braining the survivors with their
stone-headed clubs, or shooting them with their poisoned arrows.  These
massacres are invariably concluded by a cannibal feast.'  Nice, amiable
people, Watson!  If this fellow had been left to his own unaided
devices this affair might have taken an even more ghastly turn.  I
fancy that, even as it is, Jonathan Small would give a good deal not to
have employed him."