Sir Nigel had scarcely spoken when the mist seemed to thin in the
valley, and to shred away into long ragged clouds which trailed from
the edges of the cliffs. The gorge in which they had camped was a mere
wedge-shaped cleft among the hills, three-quarters of a mile deep, with
the small rugged rising upon which they stood at the further end, and
the brown crags walling it in on three sides. As the mist parted, and
the sun broke through, it gleamed and shimmered with dazzling brightness
upon the armor and headpieces of a vast body of horsemen who stretched
across the barranca from one cliff to the other, and extended backwards
until their rear guard were far out upon the plain beyond. Line after
line, and rank after rank, they choked the neck of the valley with
a long vista of tossing pennons, twinkling lances, waving plumes and
streaming banderoles, while the curvets and gambades of the chargers
lent a constant motion and shimmer to the glittering, many-colored mass.
A yell of exultation, and a forest of waving steel through the length
and breadth of their column, announced that they could at last see their
entrapped enemies, while the swelling notes of a hundred bugles and
drums, mixed with the clash of Moorish cymbals, broke forth into a proud
peal of martial triumph. Strange it was to these gallant and sparkling
cavaliers of Spain to look upon this handful of men upon the hill, the
thin lines of bowmen, the knots of knights and men-at-arms with armor
rusted and discolored from long service, and to learn that these were
indeed the soldiers whose fame and prowess had been the camp-fire talk
of every army in Christendom. Very still and silent they stood, leaning
upon their bows, while their leaders took counsel together in front of
them. No clang of bugle rose from their stern ranks, but in the centre
waved the leopards of England, on the right the ensign of their Company
with the roses of Loring, and on the left, over three score of Welsh
bowmen, there floated the red banner of Merlin with the boars'-heads of
the Buttesthorns. Gravely and sedately they stood beneath the morning
sun waiting for the onslaught of their foemen.