"That's creepy," says Doctor Foster. "But I think one of my experiences
would run it close. Shortly after I put up my plate I had a visit from a
little hunch-backed woman, who wished me to come and attend to her
sister in her trouble. When I reached the house, which was a very poor
one, I found two other little hunched-backed women, exactly like the
first, waiting for me in the sitting-room. Not one of them said a word,
but my companion took the lamp and walked upstairs with her two sisters
behind her, and me bringing up the rear. I can see those three queer
shadows cast by the lamp upon the wall as clearly as I can see that
tobacco pouch. In the room above was the fourth sister, a remarkably
beautiful girl in evident need of my assistance. There was no wedding
ring upon her finger. The three deformed sisters seated themselves round
the room, like so many graven images, and all night not one of them
opened her mouth. I'm not romancing, Hargrave; this is absolute fact. In
the early morning a fearful thunderstorm broke out, one of the most
violent I have ever known. The little garret burned blue with the
lightning, and the thunder roared and rattled as if it were on the very
roof of the house. It wasn't much of a lamp I had, and it was a queer
thing when a spurt of lightning came to see those three twisted figures
sitting round the walls, or to have the voice of my patient drowned by
the booming of the thunder. By Jove, I don't mind telling you that there
was a time when I nearly bolted from the room. All came right in the
end, but I never heard the true story of the unfortunate beauty and her
three crippled sisters."