‘But how comes this about?’ I asked. ‘Why, marry, it is no mystery. Cunning old birds are not to be caught
with chaff. When I left you I made for a certain inn where I could count
upon finding a friend. There I lay by for a while, en cachette, as the
Messieurs call it, while I could work out the plan that was in my head.
Donner wetter! but I got a fright from that old seaman friend of yours,
who should be sold as a picture, for he is of little use as a man. Well,
I bethought me early in the affair of your visit to Badminton, and of
the Duke of B. We shall mention no names, but you can follow my meaning.
To him I sent a messenger, to the effect that I purposed to purchase my
own pardon by letting out all that I knew concerning his double dealing
with the rebels. The message was carried to him secretly, and his
answer was that I should meet him at a certain spot by night. I sent my
messenger instead of myself, and he was found in the morning stiff and
stark, with more holes in his doublet than ever the tailor made. On
this I sent again, raising my demands, and insisting upon a speedy
settlement. He asked my conditions. I replied, a free pardon and a
command for myself. For you, money enough to land you safely in some
foreign country where you can pursue the noble profession of arms. I got
them both, though it was like drawing teeth from his head. His name hath
much power at Court just now, and the King can refuse him nothing. I
have my pardon and a command of troops in New England. For you I have
two hundred pieces, of which thirty have been paid in ransom to the
captain, while twenty are due to me for my disbursements over the
matter. In this bag you will find the odd hundred and fifty, of which
you will pay fifteen to the fishermen who have promised to see you safe
to Flushing.’