‘Faith! If they don’t fight better than their captain rides,’ whispered
Reuben, ‘it will be an evil business. I trust they will be firmer in the
field than I am in the saddle.’ ‘The third company of scythesmen I commit to your charge, Captain Micah
Clarke,’ continued Saxon. ‘Good Master Joshua Pettigrue will be our
field-chaplain. Shall not his voice and his presence be to us as
manna in the wilderness, and as springs of water in dry places? The
under-officers I see that you have yourselves chosen, and your captains
shall have power to add to the number from those who smite boldly and
spare not. Now one thing I have to say to you, and I speak it that all
may hear, and that none may hereafter complain that the rules he serves
under were not made clear to him. For I tell you now that when the
evening bugle calls, and the helm and pike are laid aside, I am as you
and you as I, fellow-workers in the same field, and drinkers from the
same wells of life. Lo, I will pray with you, or preach with you, or
hearken with you, or expound to you, or do aught that may become a
brother pilgrim upon the weary road. But hark you, friends! when we are
in arms and the good work is to be done, on the march, in the field, or
on parade, then let your bearing be strict, soldierly, and scrupulous,
quick to hear and alert to obey, for I shall have no sluggards or
laggards, and if there be any such my hand shall be heavy upon them,
yea, even to the cutting of them off. I say there shall be no mercy for
such,’ here he paused and surveyed his force with a set face and his
eyelids drawn low over his glinting, shifting eyes. ‘If, then,’ he
continued, ‘there is any man among you who fears to serve under a hard
discipline, let him stand forth now, and let him betake him to some
easier leader, for I say to you that whilst I command this corps,
Saxon’s regiment of Wiltshire foot shall be worthy to testify in this
great and soul-raising cause.’