“But who is to decide whether it is a fitting case for your
interference?” objected the American. “A predatory country could grab
every other land in the world upon such a pretext.” “Events--inexorable, inevitable events--will decide it. Take this
Egyptian business as an example. In 1881 there was nothing in this world
further from the minds of our people than any interference with Egypt;
and yet 1882 left us in possession of the country. There was never any
choice in the chain of events. A massacre in the streets of Alexandria,
and the mounting of guns to drive out our fleet--which was there, you
understand, in fulfilment of solemn treaty obligations--led to the
bombardment. The bombardment led to a landing to save the city from
destruction. The landing caused an extension of operations--and here we
are, with the country upon our hands. At the time of trouble we begged
and implored the French or any one else to come and help us to set the
thing to rights, but they all deserted us when there was work to be
done, though they are ready enough to scold and to impede us now. When
we tried to get out of it, up came this wild Dervish movement, and we
had to sit tighter than ever. We never wanted the task; but, now that it
has come, we must put it through in a workmanlike manner. We've brought
justice into the country, and purity of administration, and protection
for the poor man. It has made more advance in the last twelve years than
since the Moslem invasion in the seventh century. Except the pay of a
couple of hundred men, who spend their money in the country, England has
neither directly nor indirectly made a shilling out of it, and I
don't believe you will find in history a more successful and more
disinterested bit of work.”