This is, in my opinion, the first clearing which should be made for the
more beautiful building to come.  The second is less important, as it
is a shifting of the point of view, rather than an actual change.  It
is to be remembered that Christ's life in this world occupied, so far
as we can estimate, 33 years, whilst from His arrest to His
resurrection was less than a week.  Yet the whole Christian system has
come to revolve round His death, to the partial exclusion of the
beautiful lesson of His life.  Far too much weight has been placed upon
the one, and far too little upon the other, for the death, beautiful,
and indeed perfect, as it was, could be matched by that of many scores
of thousands who have died for an idea, while the life, with its
consistent record of charity, breadth of mind, unselfishness, courage,
reason, and progressiveness, is absolutely unique and superhuman.  Even
in these abbreviated, translated, and second-hand records we receive an
impression such as no other life can give--an impression which fills us
with utter reverence.  Napoleon, no mean judge of human nature, said of
it:  "It is different with Christ.  Everything about Him astonishes me.
His spirit surprises me, and His will confounds me.  Between Him and
anything of this world there is no possible comparison.  He is really a
being apart.  The nearer I approach Him and the closer I examine Him,
the more everything seems above me."