When after a long chase Aylward secured the spare horse and brought it
back, he found his master seated upon a fallen tree, his face buried in
his hands and his mind clouded with humiliation and grief. Nothing was
said, for the matter was beyond words, and so in moody silence they rode
upon their way. But soon they came upon a scene which drew Nigel's thoughts away from
his bitter trouble, for in front of them there rose the towers of a
great building with a small gray sloping village around it, and they
learned from a passing hind that this was the hamlet and Abbey of
Battle. Together they drew rein upon the low ridge and looked down into
that valley of death from which even now the reek of blood seems to
rise. Down beside that sinister lake and amid those scattered bushes
sprinkled over the naked flank of the long ridge was fought that
long-drawn struggle betwixt two most noble foes with broad England as
the prize of victory. Here, up and down the low hill, hour by hour the
grim struggle had waxed and waned, until the Saxon army had died where
it stood, King, court, house-carl and fyrdsman, each in their ranks even
as they had fought. And now, after all the stress and toil, the tyranny,
the savage revolt, the fierce suppression, God had made His purpose
complete, for here were Nigel the Norman and Aylward the Saxon with
good-fellowship in their hearts and a common respect in their minds,
with the same banner and the same cause, riding forth to do battle for
their old mother England.