"All that night we sat together, our arms round each other, each
strengthening each for the troubles that lay before us.  The very next
evening had been fixed for the attempt.  By midday my husband and I
were on our way to London, but not before he had given our benefactor
full warning of this danger, and had also left such information for the
police as would safeguard his life for the future. "The rest, gentlemen, you know for yourselves.  We were sure that our
enemies would be behind us like our own shadows.  Gorgiano had his
private reasons for vengeance, but in any case we knew how ruthless,
cunning, and untiring he could be.  Both Italy and America are full of
stories of his dreadful powers.  If ever they were exerted it would be
now.  My darling made use of the few clear days which our start had
given us in arranging for a refuge for me in such a fashion that no
possible danger could reach me. For his own part, he wished to be free
that he might communicate both with the American and with the Italian
police.  I do not myself know where he lived, or how.  All that I
learned was through the columns of a newspaper.  But once as I looked
through my window, I saw two Italians watching the house, and I
understood that in some way Gorgiano had found our retreat. Finally
Gennaro told me, through the paper, that he would signal to me from a
certain window, but when the signals came they were nothing but
warnings, which were suddenly interrupted.  It is very clear to me now
that he knew Gorgiano to be close upon him, and that, thank God! he was
ready for him when he came.  And now, gentleman, I would ask you
whether we have anything to fear from the law, or whether any judge
upon earth would condemn my Gennaro for what he has done?"