Here was an offer which the company in an English inn at that or any
other date are slow to refuse. The flagons were re-gathered and came
back with the white foam dripping over their edges. Two of the woodmen
and three of the laborers drank their portions off hurriedly and trooped
off together, for their homes were distant and the hour late. The
others, however, drew closer, leaving the place of honor to the right
of the gleeman to the free-handed new-comer. He had thrown off his steel
cap and his brigandine, and had placed them with his sword, his quiver
and his painted long-bow, on the top of his varied heap of plunder in
the corner. Now, with his thick and somewhat bowed legs stretched in
front of the blaze, his green jerkin thrown open, and a great quart
pot held in his corded fist, he looked the picture of comfort and of
good-fellowship. His hard-set face had softened, and the thick crop of
crisp brown curls which had been hidden by his helmet grew low upon his
massive neck. He might have been forty years of age, though hard toil
and harder pleasure had left their grim marks upon his features. Alleyne
had ceased painting his pied merlin, and sat, brush in hand, staring
with open eyes at a type of man so strange and so unlike any whom he had
met. Men had been good or had been bad in his catalogue, but here was a
man who was fierce one instant and gentle the next, with a curse on his
lips and a smile in his eye. What was to be made of such a man as that?