The fanatics, though driven back, were not men to be content with a
single repulse. They had lost ten of their number, including their
leader, without being able to break our line, but the failure only
served to increase their fury. For a minute or so they gathered panting
in the aisle. Then with a mad yell they dashed in once more, and made a
desperate effort to cut a way through to the altar. It was a fiercer and
more prolonged struggle than before. One of our followers was stabbed to
the heart over the rails, and fell without a groan. Another was stunned
by a mass of masonry hurled at him by a giant cragsman. Reuben was
felled by a club, and would have been dragged out and hacked to pieces
had I not stood over him and beaten off his assailants. Sir Gervas was
borne off his legs by the rush, but lay like a wounded wildcat, striking
out furiously at everything which came within his reach. Buyse and
Saxon, back to back, stood firm amidst the seething, rushing crowd,
cutting down every man within sweep of their swords. Yet in such a
struggle numbers must in the end prevail, and I confess that I for one
had begun to have fears for the upshot of our contest, when the heavy
tramp of disciplined feet rang through the Cathedral, and the Baronetâ€™s
musqueteers came at a quick run up the central aisle. The fanatics did
not await their charge, but darted off over benches and pews, followed
by our allies, who were furious on seeing their beloved Captain upon the
ground. There was a wild minute or two, with confused shuffling of feet,
stabs, groans, and the clatter of musket butts on the marble floor. Of
the rioters some were slain, but the greater part threw down their arms
and were arrested at the command of Lord Grey, while a strong guard was
placed at the gates to prevent any fresh outburst of sectarian fury.