"It came about in this way.  When the rajah put his jewels into the
hands of Achmet he did it because he knew that he was a trusty man.
They are suspicious folk in the East, however:  so what does this rajah
do but take a second even more trusty servant and set him to play the
spy upon the first?  This second man was ordered never to let Achmet
out of his sight, and he followed him like his shadow.  He went after
him that night and saw him pass through the doorway.  Of course he
thought he had taken refuge in the fort, and applied for admission
there himself next day, but could find no trace of Achmet.  This seemed
to him so strange that he spoke about it to a sergeant of guides, who
brought it to the ears of the commandant.  A thorough search was
quickly made, and the body was discovered.  Thus at the very moment
that we thought that all was safe we were all four seized and brought
to trial on a charge of murder,--three of us because we had held the
gate that night, and the fourth because he was known to have been in
the company of the murdered man.  Not a word about the jewels came out
at the trial, for the rajah had been deposed and driven out of India:
so no one had any particular interest in them.  The murder, however,
was clearly made out, and it was certain that we must all have been
concerned in it.  The three Sikhs got penal servitude for life, and I
was condemned to death, though my sentence was afterwards commuted into
the same as the others.