You can see my own devotion to the ring in that trio of brown
volumes which stand, appropriately enough, upon the flank of Borrow.
They are the three volumes of "Pugilistica," given me years ago by
my old friend, Robert Barr, a mine in which you can never pick for
half an hour without striking it rich. Alas! for the horrible slang
of those days, the vapid witless Corinthian talk, with its ogles and
its fogles, its pointless jokes, its maddening habit of italicizing
a word or two in every sentence. Even these stern and desperate
encounters, fit sports for the men of Albuera and Waterloo, become
dull and vulgar, in that dreadful jargon. You have to tum to
Hazlitt's account of the encounter between the Gasman and the
Bristol Bull, to feel the savage strength of it all. It is a
hardened reader who does not wince even in print before that
frightful right-hander which felled the giant, and left him in "red
ruin" from eyebrow to jaw. But even if there be no Hazlitt present
to describe such a combat it is a poor imagination which is not
fired by the deeds of the humble heroes who lived once so vividly
upon earth, and now only appeal to faithful ones in these
little-read pages. They were picturesque creatures, men of great
force of character and will, who reached the limits of human bravery
and endurance. There is Jackson on the cover, gold upon brown,
"gentleman Jackson," Jackson of the balustrade calf and the noble
head, who wrote his name with an 88-pound weight dangling from his
little finger.