“But for what possible end?” “Ah! there lies our problem. There is one rather obvious line of
investigation.” He took down the great book in which, day by day, he
filed the agony columns of the various London journals. “Dear me!” said
he, turning over the pages, “what a chorus of groans, cries, and
bleatings! What a rag-bag of singular happenings! But surely the most
valuable hunting-ground that ever was given to a student of the
unusual! This person is alone and cannot be approached by letter
without a breach of that absolute secrecy which is desired. How is any
news or any message to reach him from without? Obviously by
advertisement through a newspaper. There seems no other way, and
fortunately we need concern ourselves with the one paper only. Here are
the _Daily Gazette_ extracts of the last fortnight. ‘Lady with a black
boa at Prince’s Skating Club’—that we may pass. ‘Surely Jimmy will not
break his mother’s heart’—that appears to be irrelevant. ‘If the lady
who fainted on Brixton bus’—she does not interest me. ‘Every day my
heart longs—’ Bleat, Watson—unmitigated bleat! Ah, this is a little
more possible. Listen to this: ‘Be patient. Will find some sure means
of communications. Meanwhile, this column. G.’ That is two days after
Mrs. Warren’s lodger arrived. It sounds plausible, does it not? The
mysterious one could understand English, even if he could not print it.
Let us see if we can pick up the trace again. Yes, here we are—three
days later. ‘Am making successful arrangements. Patience and prudence.
The clouds will pass. G.’ Nothing for a week after that. Then comes
something much more definite: ‘The path is clearing. If I find chance
signal message remember code agreed—One A, two B, and so on. You will
hear soon. G.’ That was in yesterday’s paper, and there is nothing in
to-day’s. It’s all very appropriate to Mrs. Warren’s lodger. If we wait
a little, Watson, I don’t doubt that the affair will grow more
intelligible.”