‘For Gervinus I cannot answer,’ said our host, ‘but for the possibility
of it I can pledge my knightly word. However, of that anon. The time
came at last when the second Charles was invited back to his throne,
and all of us, from Jeffrey Hudson, the court dwarf, up to my Lord
Clarendon, were in high feather at the hope of regaining our own once
more. For my own claim, I let it stand for some time, thinking that it
would be a more graceful act for the King to help a poor cavalier who
had ruined himself for the sake of his family without solicitation on
his part. I waited and waited, but no word came, so at last I betook
myself to the levee and was duly presented to him. “Ah,” said he,
greeting me with the cordiality which he could assume so well, “you
are, if I mistake not, Sir Jasper Killigrew?” “Nay, your Majesty,”
 I answered, “I am Sir Jacob Clancing, formerly of Snellaby Hall, in
Staffordshire;” and with that I reminded him of Worcester fight and of
many passages which had occurred to us in common. “Od’s fish!” he cried,
“how could I be so forgetful! And how are all at Snellaby?” I then
explained to him that the Hall had passed out of my hands, and told him
in a few words the state to which I had been reduced. His face clouded
over and his manner chilled to me at once. “They are all on to me for
money and for places,” he said, “and truly the Commons are so niggardly
to me that I can scarce be generous to others. However, Sir Jacob, we
shall see what can be done for thee,” and with that he dismissed me.
That same night the secretary of my Lord Clarendon came to me, and
announced with much form and show that, in consideration of my long
devotion and the losses which I had sustained, the King was graciously
pleased to make me a lottery cavalier.’