The robbers, however, were not disposed to leave their victim until they
had worked their wicked will upon her. The black man, with the woman's
crimson scarf tied round his swarthy head, stood forward in the centre
of the path, with a long dull-colored knife in his hand, while the
other, waving a ragged cudgel, cursed at Alleyne and dared him to
come on. His blood was fairly aflame, however, and he needed no such
challenge. Dashing at the black man, he smote at him with such good will
that the other let his knife tinkle into the roadway, and hopped howling
to a safer distance. The second rogue, however, made of sterner stuff,
rushed in upon the clerk, and clipped him round the waist with a grip
like a bear, shouting the while to his comrade to come round and stab
him in the back. At this the negro took heart of grace, and picking up
his dagger again he came stealing with prowling step and murderous eye,
while the two swayed backwards and forwards, staggering this way and
that. In the very midst of the scuffle, however, whilst Alleyne braced
himself to feel the cold blade between his shoulders, there came a
sudden scurry of hoofs, and the black man yelled with terror and ran
for his life through the heather. The man with the birth-mark, too,
struggled to break away, and Alleyne heard his teeth chatter and felt
his limbs grow limp to his hand. At this sign of coming aid the clerk
held on the tighter, and at last was able to pin his man down and
glanced behind him to see where all the noise was coming from.