"Pile it on, men, pile it on!" cried Holmes, looking down into the
engine-room, while the fierce glow from below beat upon his eager,
aquiline face.  "Get every pound of steam you can." "I think we gain a little," said Jones, with his eyes on the Aurora. "I am sure of it," said I.  "We shall be up with her in a very few
minutes." At that moment, however, as our evil fate would have it, a tug with
three barges in tow blundered in between us.  It was only by putting
our helm hard down that we avoided a collision, and before we could
round them and recover our way the Aurora had gained a good two hundred
yards.  She was still, however, well in view, and the murky uncertain
twilight was setting into a clear starlit night.  Our boilers were
strained to their utmost, and the frail shell vibrated and creaked with
the fierce energy which was driving us along.  We had shot through the
Pool, past the West India Docks, down the long Deptford Reach, and up
again after rounding the Isle of Dogs.  The dull blur in front of us
resolved itself now clearly enough into the dainty Aurora.  Jones
turned our search-light upon her, so that we could plainly see the
figures upon her deck.  One man sat by the stern, with something black
between his knees over which he stooped.  Beside him lay a dark mass
which looked like a Newfoundland dog.  The boy held the tiller, while
against the red glare of the furnace I could see old Smith, stripped to
the waist, and shovelling coals for dear life.  They may have had some
doubt at first as to whether we were really pursuing them, but now as
we followed every winding and turning which they took there could no
longer be any question about it.  At Greenwich we were about three
hundred paces behind them.  At Blackwall we could not have been more
than two hundred and fifty.  I have coursed many creatures in many
countries during my checkered career, but never did sport give me such
a wild thrill as this mad, flying man-hunt down the Thames.  Steadily
we drew in upon them, yard by yard.  In the silence of the night we
could hear the panting and clanking of their machinery.  The man in the
stern still crouched upon the deck, and his arms were moving as though
he were busy, while every now and then he would look up and measure
with a glance the distance which still separated us.  Nearer we came
and nearer. Jones yelled to them to stop.  We were not more than four
boat's lengths behind them, both boats flying at a tremendous pace.  It
was a clear reach of the river, with Barking Level upon one side and
the melancholy Plumstead Marshes upon the other.  At our hail the man
in the stern sprang up from the deck and shook his two clinched fists
at us, cursing the while in a high, cracked voice. He was a good-sized,
powerful man, and as he stood poising himself with legs astride I could
see that from the thigh downwards there was but a wooden stump upon the
right side.  At the sound of his strident, angry cries there was
movement in the huddled bundle upon the deck.  It straightened itself
into a little black man--the smallest I have ever seen--with a great,
misshapen head and a shock of tangled, dishevelled hair.  Holmes had
already drawn his revolver, and I whipped out mine at the sight of this
savage, distorted creature.  He was wrapped in some sort of dark ulster
or blanket, which left only his face exposed; but that face was enough
to give a man a sleepless night.  Never have I seen features so deeply
marked with all bestiality and cruelty.  His small eyes glowed and
burned with a sombre light, and his thick lips were writhed back from
his teeth, which grinned and chattered at us with a half animal fury.