As I tramped along, the rearmost of the four, I could not help smiling
at the appearance of my three companions in front.  Was this the
luxurious Lord John Roxton who had sat that evening in the Albany
amidst his Persian rugs and his pictures in the pink radiance of the
tinted lights?  And was this the imposing Professor who had swelled
behind the great desk in his massive study at Enmore Park?  And,
finally, could this be the austere and prim figure which had risen
before the meeting at the Zoological Institute?  No three tramps that
one could have met in a Surrey lane could have looked more hopeless and
bedraggled.  We had, it is true, been only a week or so upon the top of
the plateau, but all our spare clothing was in our camp below, and the
one week had been a severe one upon us all, though least to me who had
not to endure the handling of the ape-men.  My three friends had all
lost their hats, and had now bound handkerchiefs round their heads,
their clothes hung in ribbons about them, and their unshaven grimy
faces were hardly to be recognized.  Both Summerlee and Challenger were
limping heavily, while I still dragged my feet from weakness after the
shock of the morning, and my neck was as stiff as a board from the
murderous grip that held it.  We were indeed a sorry crew, and I did
not wonder to see our Indian companions glance back at us occasionally
with horror and amazement on their faces.