Apart from the apparent injustice of vicarious atonement, the student
is well aware that the whole of this sanguinary metaphor is drawn
really from the Pagan rites of Mithra, where the neophyte was actually
placed under a bull at the ceremony of the TAUROBOLIUM, and was
drenched, through a grating, with the blood of the slaughtered animal.
Such reminiscences of the more brutal side of Paganism are not helpful
to the thoughtful and sensitive modern mind.  But what is always fresh
and always useful and always beautiful, is the memory of the sweet
Spirit who wandered on the hillsides of Galilee; who gathered the
children around him; who met his friends in innocent good-fellowship;
who shrank from forms and ceremonies, craving always for the inner
meaning; who forgave the sinner; who championed the poor, and who in
every decision threw his weight upon the side of charity and breadth of
view.  When to this character you add those wondrous psychic powers
already analysed, you do, indeed, find a supreme character in the
world's history who obviously stands nearer to the Highest than any
other.  When one compares the general effect of His teaching with that
of the more rigid churches, one marvels how in their dogmatism, their
insistence upon forms, their exclusiveness, their pomp and their
intolerance, they could have got so far away from the example of their
Master, so that as one looks upon Him and them, one feels that there is
absolute deep antagonism and that one cannot speak of the Church and
Christ, but only of the Church or Christ.