"It's wonderful how bravely and cheerily a woman can face a crushing
blow.  It is different with men.  A man can stand it without
complaining, but it knocks him dazed and silly all the same.  But the
woman does not lose her wits any more than she does her courage.  Now,
I had a case only a few weeks ago which would show you what I mean.  A
gentleman consulted me about his wife, a very beautiful woman.  She had
a small tubercular nodule upon her upper arm, according to him.  He was
sure that it was of no importance, but he wanted to know whether
Devonshire or the Riviera would be the better for her. I examined her
and found a frightful sarcoma of the bone, hardly showing upon the
surface, but involving the shoulder-blade and clavicle as well as the
humerus.  A more malignant case I have never seen.  I sent her out of
the room and I told him the truth.  What did he do?  Why, he walked
slowly round that room with his hands behind his back, looking with the
greatest interest at the pictures.  I can see him now, putting up his
gold pince-nez and staring at them with perfectly vacant eyes, which
told me that he saw neither them nor the wall behind them.  'Amputation
of the arm?' he asked at last.  'And of the collar-bone and
shoulder-blade,' said I.  'Quite so.  The collar-bone and
shoulder-blade,' he repeated, still staring about him with those
lifeless eyes.  It settled him.  I don't believe he'll ever be the same
man again.  But the woman took it as bravely and brightly as could be,
and she has done very well since.   The mischief was so great that the
arm snapped as we drew it from the night-dress.  No, I don't think that
there will be any return, and I have every hope of her recovery.