The Emperor smiled grimly, while the Patrician's thin face grew pale
with anger. "Where is the fellow?" he asked. "In the ergastulum, your honour, with the furca on his neck." "Bring him hither and summon the household." A few minutes later the whole back of the atrium was thronged by the
motley crowd who ministered to the household needs of a great Roman
nobleman. There was the arcarius, or account keeper, with his stylum
behind his ear; the sleek prægustator, who sampled all foods, so as to
stand between his master and poison, and beside him his predecessor, now
a half-witted idiot through the interception twenty years before of a
datura draught from Canidia; the cellar-man, summoned from amongst his
amphoræ; the cook, with his basting-ladle in his hand; the pompous
nomenclator, who ushered the guests; the cubicularius, who saw to their
accommodation; the silentiarius, who kept order in the house; the
structor, who set forth the tables; the carptor, who carved the food;
the cinerarius, who lit the fires--these and many more, half-curious,
half-terrified, came to the judging of Datus. Behind them a chattering,
giggling swarm of Lalages, Marias, Cerusas, and Amaryllides, from the
laundries and the spinning-rooms, stood upon their tiptoes, and extended
their pretty wondering faces over the shoulders of the men. Through this
crowd came two stout varlets leading the culprit between them. He was a
small, dark, rough-headed man, with an unkempt beard and wild eyes which
shone brightly with strong inward emotion. His hands were bound behind
him, and over his neck was the heavy wooden collar or furca which was
placed upon refractory slaves. A smear of blood across his cheek showed
that he had not come uninjured from the preceding scuffle.