Think of what Reade does in that one book. He takes the reader by
the hand, and he leads him away into the Middle Ages, and not a
conventional study-built Middle Age, but a period quivering with
life, full of folk who are as human and real as a 'bus-load in
Oxford Street. He takes him through Holland, he shows him the
painters, the dykes, the life. He leads him down the long line of
the Rhine, the spinal marrow of Mediaeval Europe. He shows him
the dawn of printing, the beginnings of freedom, the life of the
great mercantile cities of South Germany, the state of Italy, the
artist-life of Rome, the monastic institutions on the eve of the
Reformation. And all this between the covers of one book, so
naturally introduced, too, and told with such vividness and spirit.
Apart from the huge scope of it, the mere study of Gerard's own
nature, his rise, his fall, his regeneration, the whole pitiable
tragedy at the end, make the book a great one. It contains, I think,
a blending of knowledge with imagination, which makes it stand alone
in our literature. Let any one read the "Autobiography of Benvenuto
Cellini," and then Charles Reade's picture of Mediaeval Roman life,
if he wishes to appreciate the way in which Reade has collected his
rough ore and has then smelted it all down in his fiery imagination.
It is a good thing to have the industry to collect facts. It is a
greater and a rarer one to have the tact to know how to use them
when you have got them. To be exact without pedantry, and thorough
without being dull, that should be the ideal of the writer of
historical romance.