"Well, what did they do?"  I was enthralled by the strange story which
my companion was whispering into my ear, while all the time his keen
eyes were shooting in every direction and his hand grasping his cocked
rifle. "I thought it was the end of us, but instead of that it started them on
a new line.  They all jabbered and chattered together.  Then one of
them stood out beside Challenger.  You'll smile, young fellah, but 'pon
my word they might have been kinsmen.  I couldn't have believed it if I
hadn't seen it with my own eyes.  This old ape-man--he was their
chief--was a sort of red Challenger, with every one of our friend's
beauty points, only just a trifle more so.  He had the short body, the
big shoulders, the round chest, no neck, a great ruddy frill of a
beard, the tufted eyebrows, the 'What do you want, damn you!' look
about the eyes, and the whole catalogue.  When the ape-man stood by
Challenger and put his paw on his shoulder, the thing was complete.
Summerlee was a bit hysterical, and he laughed till he cried.  The
ape-men laughed too--or at least they put up the devil of a
cacklin'--and they set to work to drag us off through the forest.  They
wouldn't touch the guns and things--thought them dangerous, I
expect--but they carried away all our loose food.  Summerlee and I got
some rough handlin' on the way--there's my skin and my clothes to prove
it--for they took us a bee-line through the brambles, and their own
hides are like leather.  But Challenger was all right.  Four of them
carried him shoulder high, and he went like a Roman emperor.  What's
that?"